
Tomorrow’s innovators - Bristol Myers Squibb
Tomorrow’s
innovators
Tomorrow's Innovators is an initiative that builds a sustainable bridge for diverse talent from Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to the biopharma industry. Its conception is another step toward creating an equitable future for Black talent in healthcare.
Shaping the future success of BMS
Ushering in the next generation of diverse and talented leaders.
Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to advancing equity in health care and knows the process of repairing institutional disparities requires action. For us to better understand, reach and serve diverse patient populations, our workforce must better reflect the experiences, perspectives and background of those diverse communities – and we’re committed to making sure it does.
From that pledge comes Tomorrow’s Innovators.
Tomorrow's Innovators is an initiative that builds a sustainable bridge for diverse talent from Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to the biopharma industry. Its conception is another step toward creating an equitable future for Black talent in healthcare.
Through collaboration with the HBCUs, Tomorrow’s Innovators will co-create custom biopharma programming, develop a 2-way leadership exchange program for collaboration and research purposes, increase HBCU talent recruitment, and attract executive-level Black talent. Together, we’ll build the incubator for the industry’s future leaders to create a more diverse and equitable future in healthcare.
“
Every idea, experience and background has a place at BMS, and I'm excited to give a new generation of leaders a seat at the table.
Chris Boerner, Chief Executive Officer
”
“
"We need you to be here. You have passion and innovation that we need in order to make sure we are having an impact on the lives of patients."
Shamika Williams, Senior Director, Strategy & Marketing, HBCU Initiatives
”
HBCU alumni
Stories
Meet some of our inspiring HBCU alumni who are making their mark on biopharma. They share their college experiences, their path to BMS, and their advice for young people looking to break into the biopharma space.
Janice Salmon’s story >
Kwame Sarpong’s story >
Explore leadership development programs
We’re looking for people who want to change lives. Join us as we transform patients’ lives through science.
Learn more
Moving forward.
Working together.
Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to advancing equity in health care and knows the process of repairing institutional disparities requires action. For us to better understand, reach and serve diverse patient populations, our workforce must better reflect the experiences, perspectives and background of those diverse communities – and we’re committed to making sure it does.
Careers with BMS >
Development programs >
Internships >
Co-Ops >
Events >
Join us as we transform patients’ lives through science
Every day, each of us works to improve outcomes for patients fighting serious diseases. Together, we're building a better future for each other and the patients who need us most.
Find jobs >
Working with our HBCU
collaborators
Through collaboration with the HBCUs, Tomorrow’s Innovators will co-create custom biopharma programming, develop a 2-way leadership exchange program for collaboration and research purposes, increase HBCU talent recruitment, and attract executive-level Black talent. Together, we’ll build the incubator for the industry’s future leaders to create a more diverse and equitable future in healthcare.
Partner school Q&A >
We applaud Bristol Myers Squibb for their initiative and bold steps towards cultivating diversity and workplace equality in the very consequential biopharma industry in manner that will certainly advance student access the spur innovation within the ranks of our most talented," said David K. Wilson, president of Morgan State University.
"Through our collaboration in this effort, not only will our faculty and students be able to take advantage of all the opportunities participation in "Tomorrow's Innovators' affords, we intend to make good on its promise and deliver the leaders who are primed to compete and prepared for success."
David Wilson President
-Morgan State University
"The critical needs that this strategic alliance would solve is exposure and access to innovation from a different perspective. We believe that we will have the diversity in thought and the diversity in approaches to solve problems for the biopharma space."
Dr. Earl B. Ettienne, Associate Professor, Director of Graduate Programs and Industry Partnerships,  Howard University College of Pharmacy
Moving forward. Together.
Why BMS?
We’re building a workforce whose diverse experiences, perspectives and personal backgrounds reflect the diversity of our global patient population.
BMS Mission, Vision and Values >
Diversity and Inclusion commitments >
Global D&I Report
We are dedicated to increasing the diversity of our global workforce so that we can better understand the needs of the patients and communities we serve. Read more about our commitment to diversity & inclusion.
View the report >
Our STEM programs
Learn more about how we strive to deliver the best transformational medicines to patients.
Discover our programs >

January 07, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company