
​Leukemia
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from leukemia conditions. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
​Leukemia
Leukemia
Resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third-party sites.
Leukemia Resources
A cancer of the blood and bone marrow caused by too many white blood cells, leukemia takes on several forms and can occur in both children and adults.
Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society (LLS) is the world's largest voluntary nonprofit health organization dedicated to developing better outcomes for blood cancer patients, sponsoring life-saving research, providing critical support, education and resources to patients and their families and working to ensure patients have access to high quality cancer care.
Learn more >
American Cancer Society
Resources from one of the country's largest and oldest volunteer health organizations, dedicated to eliminating cancer.
Learn more >
National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)
Information on acute myeloid leukemia from NORD’s Rare Disease Database.
Learn more >
Know AML
Know AML is the first global AML initiative, that aims to direct patients, caregivers, families, and healthcare professionals to the available information, resources and support they need to deal with AML.
Learn more >
AMLHub
The AML Hub is an open-access online resource dedicated to providing balanced, credible, and up-to-date medical education on acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Our aim is to enhance knowledge in AML through the multichannel dissemination of global advances related to its classification, diagnosis, treatment and management.
Learn more >
AAMDS International Foundation
An overview of acute myeloid leukemia with information about its causes and treatments.
Learn more >
Leukemia Advocacy Resource Flashcard
Learn about the role of advocacy organizations in providing support for patients with cancer.
Download Flashcard
General Leukemia Resources
Cancer Care
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.
National Cancer Institute
An overview on adjusting to cancer, dealing with self-image, and support for caregivers.
American Cancer Society
Post-treatment lifestyle changes to help you improve your health in the long term.
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society®
Information on clinical trials, how they work, who can participate, and how to find out if they're right for you.

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company