
People and business resource groups leadership team
The People and Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) focus on our diversity and inclusion priorities to build a workforce which reflects the diversity of the patients and communities we serve, shape a culture of inclusion and belonging, and drive innovation and business results. Our PBRG leaders report directly to members of
Bristol Myers Squibb’s Leadership Team
and serve as a trusted advisory group, providing critical insights and value on key business initiatives.
About us
Leadership
People and business resource groups leadership team
Carla Daily
Global Lead, Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women (B-NOW)
Carla is a leader who has a key focus on transformational strategic priorities and initiatives that create and foster a unified organizational culture at Bristol Myers Squibb. Carla has 21 years of experience at Bristol Myers Squibb, spanning Facilities, Research & Development and Commercial.
Before becoming the Global Lead of B-NOW, Carla served as senior director, Strategy & Business Development (SBD), People and Business Operations. In this role, she partnered closely with the SBD leadership team and human resources to enable the SBD People Strategy centered on workforce engagement.
Carla is a member of all eight People and Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) and had the honor to serve on the leadership team of the Black Organization for Leadership and Development (BOLD) for over seven years before transitioning to the Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women (B-NOW) leadership team where she led the Workplace pillar.
Carla holds a BS degree in business management from the University of Phoenix. Her personal passion surrounds the career growth and development of people, especially women and people of color, who are seeking to grow their careers at Bristol Myers Squibb. When she is not focused on the workforce, she turns her attention to the children of her community through her activities with the Jack and Jill Organization of America, Inc.
Learn more about the Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women (B-NOW) .
Updated: March 2023
Jenny Sargeant
Global Lead, Disability Advancement Workplace Network (DAWN)
Jenny is the  DAWN (Disability Advancement Workplace Network)
Lead at BMS, where she leads, inspires and mobilizes a global community of more than 2,500 passionate DAWN members and I&D champions, to achieve business performance excellence at BMS by embracing disability diversity. She delivers on three strategic imperatives – identifying and driving health equity initiatives, attracting and retaining talent with disabilities, and defining and building an integrated disability inclusion model.
Jenny has been part of the BMS organization for 19 years. Prior to her DAWN Lead role, she worked in Talent Management leading continuous innovation and operational effectiveness of performance and talent processes, systems, communications, and training.
In 2019, Jenny served as the Chester DAWN Chapter Lead and the European point for DAWN, where she led and drove initiatives, supported communications around accommodations and advanced other programs. From here, she transitioned to the DAWN global leadership team where she led the Colleagues pillar. Jenny uses her great cultural awareness and international insights to inform global strategy, having lived in three different countries and speaking five languages.
Jenny brings to her role immense passion and a wealth of experience as parent and caregiver for her 16-year-old son, who has autism. She is inspired by him every day as he continues to prove negative stereotypes wrong.
Jenny holds a BA degree with honors in French and Spanish from Liverpool John Moores University and a master’s degree in education from the University of Chester. Aside from work, she enjoys spending time with her family and walking in the beautiful Welsh countryside.
Learn more about Disability Advancement Workplace Network (DAWN)
Updated: November 2023
Ricardo Sanchez
Global Lead, Veterans Community Network (VCN)
Ricardo Sanchez is the Global Lead for the  Veterans Community Network (VCN)
at Bristol Myers Squibb. Prior to becoming the VCN Lead, he was an associate director for Federal Government Affairs at Bristol Myers Squibb. As a member of the of the Federal Government Affairs team, Ricardo was responsible for developing and advancing strategies that ensured patients have access to innovative treatments to serious diseases. With a focus on health equity, Ricardo worked primarily with Tri-Caucus members of Congress to increase access to treatments, tackle social determinants of health and improve clinical trial diversity.
Ricardo was born in Cali, Colombia and was raised in where he considers his hometown of Elizabeth, NJ. After graduating High School, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps where he served seven years. He first served a small arms technician and subsequently was selected to be a Marine security guard where he provided security for embassies around the world.
Ricardo received his MA degree in U.S. foreign policy and national security from American University in Washington, DC, and his BA in political science and Latin American studies from Rutgers University in New Jersey.
Learn more about Veterans Community Network (VCN)
Updated: November, 2023
John Loveseth
Global Lead, Cultivating Leadership, Innovation & Multigenerational Belonging (CLIMB)
John brings over a decade of experience connecting and fostering next generational talent within Bristol Myers Squibb and his local community. He has been an active member of CLIMB for over seven years, co-leading and launching Canada’s first PBRG chapter in 2018 and was promoted to the Global Chapters co-lead in early 2019. For his efforts introducing and promoting PBRGs to the Canadian workforce, John was the inaugural recipient of Bristol Myers Squibb Canada’s 2018 Diversity & Inclusion award.
John is a One Young World (OYW) Ambassador and a driver of corporate social responsibility & sustainability, seeking opportunities that actively improve the health of the communities where we live, work and serve. After first attending the OYW Summit in 2017, John was inspired to bring back positive change to the company and partnered with various stakeholders to develop and implement Bristol Myers Squibb’s first trans-inclusive guidelines in the U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada.
John began his career at Bristol Myers Squibb in 2016 as a clinical site monitor, playing a key role in advancing several Phase I-III immuno-oncology programs in the investigational clinical setting. In 2018, he was promoted to senior clinical trial monitor and was responsible for ensuring protocol compliance, quality data and patient safety in clinical trials sites across western Canada. Prior to joining Bristol Myers Squibb, John held various clinical research positions at organizations across North America, including ICON, TRIO and the Cross Cancer Institute.
John holds a bachelor’s degree in science and psychology from the University of Alberta and received his designation as a Certified Clinical Research Professional (CCRP). He is an advocate, community volunteer and is passionate about promoting generational diversity in the workplace.
Learn more about Cultivating Leadership, Innovation & Multigenerational Belonging (CLIMB) .
Updated: October 2023
Nataly Manjarrez-Orduño
Global Lead, Organization for Latino Achievement (OLA)
Nataly Manjarrez-Orduño began her career at Bristol Myers Squibb in 2014 as a scientist in Translational Discovery. Since then, she has held roles of increasing responsibility in Drug Discovery and Translational Medicine and, up to June of 2021, was the scientific director of the Solid Tumor Late Development Translational Research Group.
Nataly has served as the Global Lead for the Organization for Latino Achievement (OLA) People and Business Resource Group since 2021, where she can match her scientific background with her passion for the role that diversity and inclusion plays in delivering transformative medicine to our patients.
She received her PhD and MSc in molecular biomedicine from CINVESTAV, Mexico City, Mexico. She also received her BSc in biological chemistry with high honors from the Universidad de Sonora in Mexico.
Learn more about Organization for Latino Achievement (OLA)
Updated: September 2021
Monique Phillips
Global Lead, Black Organization for Leadership & Development (BOLD)
Monique Phillips is an efficiency driven pharmaceutical professional with over a decade of experience. She began her career at Bristol Myers Squibb in 2008 as a discovery chemist. She has competencies across the industry. Her work includes small molecule discovery, clinical trial management, project management and clinical trial recruitment. Monique is passionate about health equity and ensuring that our clinical trials are inclusive of all our patients.
Before becoming the Global Lead of BOLD, Monique worked as a Recruitment Strategy lead, partnering with organizations to improve study enrollment and get enrollment that more accurately reflected those suffering with the disease.
Monique served on the Board of Directors for Women of Color in Pharma (WOCIP), an organization formed to empower women of color in pharma and the life sciences to excel in their personal and professional development.
Monique earned her BS in biochemistry from the College of Charleston and her MS in chemistry from the University of Georgia. She is a certified Project Management Professional and is a proven innovator with patents, publications and program impact.
Learn more about Black Organization for Leadership & Development (BOLD)
Updated: January 2022
Jennifer Rasing
Global Lead, Pan Asian Network (PAN)
Jennifer Rasing is a passionate scientist and leader who has spent over 20 years dedicated to the biopharmaceutical industry. She joined Bristol Myers Squibb in 2004 as a research scientist and her extensive experience in cell-based and immunological assays was key to the approval of multiple marketed products.
Prior to becoming Global Lead of the
Pan Asian Network
(PAN), Jennifer worked in the clinical trial space, managing key global Immuno-Oncology clinical trial studies as a senior project manager. And most recently, she was a Research and Development quality senior auditor responsible for quality governance and GCP (Good Clinical Practice) auditing of clinical trials, vendors and platforms across the company.
Jennifer is a change champion, promoting PAN and awareness of Asian and Pacific Islander issues by speaking and driving the development of groundbreaking programs throughout the organization. Jennifer’s commitment to an inclusive workplace that values diverse viewpoints has led to key initiatives including Asian Voices and the Speaking Out and Stepping Up Campaign. She moderated several PAN events addressing health equity and social justice in the AAPI community and led workshops to elevate and advance Asian talent across the company. Jennifer has also mentored aspiring future Asian leaders in the Bristol Myers Squibb Asian community and served PAN as its global project manager since January 2020.
As Global PAN Lead, Jennifer is committed to championing an inclusive workplace that welcomes, values and elevates diverse voices. She will help the company transform patient lives through science by addressing health disparities and social justice issues in Asian and Pacific Islander communities.
Jennifer holds a BS degree in biotechnology from Rochester Institute of Technology.
Learn more about Pan Asian Network
Updated: May 2022
Frank Sperber
Global Lead, PRIDE Alliance
Frank Sperber joined Bristol Myers Squibb in 2008 and first worked as regional medical science manager, Virology, at the EU BMS headquarters in Paris, France. While there, he served as the SHE program ambassador for Central and Eastern Europe, a program supporting HIV+ women. For the last nine years, Frank was a senior medical science liaison in oncology, currently field based in Germany, where he worked to develop and maintain interactions with healthcare professionals and contributed to the development and delivery of medical programs in oncology. Before joining BMS, Frank worked as a senior environmental analyst at Palm Beach County Environmental Resources Management Department in West Palm Beach, Florida, where he developed and coordinated curricular courses related to environmental programs in collaboration with students at colleges and universities in South Florida. He also worked in the Regulatory Department on wetland and coastal protection programs at the Everglades.
Prior to becoming Global Lead of the
PRIDE Alliance  PBRG, Frank was co-lead of the German PRIDE Alliance Chapter since its founding in 2021. Frank and his chapter co-leads successfully initiated the “Safe Zone” workshops in Germany, bringing together many interested colleagues and supporters, and established important committees including internal communications, PRIDE Month activities and an external exchange with other stakeholders. Frank’s leadership also contributed to BMS Germany receiving the PRIDE Champion certification in GOLD from the independent Uhlala Group in 2022 and 2023.
Frank earned his MS degree in biology from the University of Leipzig in Germany. Outside of work, he enjoys traveling and loves both watching and playing sports. Frank has competed in the Gay Games and Euro Games for many years and is currently the proud gold medal holder in the decathlon from the Gay Games GG10 in Paris.
Learn more about PRIDE Alliance
Updated: November, 2023

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company