
People
Blueprint for a breakthrough: Applying research learnings beyond the lab
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
April 07, 2021
Our stories
/
People
Justine Dell'Aringa, associate director, Translational Research, Immuno-Oncology and Cell Therapy at Bristol Myers Squibb, knows a thing or two about building from the ground up. By day, she works in the company’s Immuno-Oncology (I-O) and Cell Therapy Thematic Research Center, leading a team of talented scientists focused on the implementation of translational development research plans into clinical trials for investigational
cell therapy
assets – treatments that work by re-engineering immune cells to fight against some of the most difficult-to-treat diseases, like cancer.
WATCH VIDEO: Blueprint for a Breakthrough
“Translational research is particularly important in cell therapy because it is an emerging modality – a relatively new, ‘living’ treatment. And so, the translational research data helps substantiate clinical findings,” she said. “We generate data to support and verify a drug’s mechanism of action, and also help understand the depth of clinical response, safety profile and mechanisms of resistance.”
With multiple cell-based therapeutic approaches under investigation in blood cancers and beyond, Bristol Myers Squibb researchers like Justine are harnessing the immune system to reimagine the future of cancer treatment and potentially bring life-changing therapies to more patients as quickly as possible.
Helping shape the next generation of cancer treatments may seem like more than enough to fill one’s time, but outside of work, Justine and her husband are working on another project of significant scale – the demolition and rebuilding of their Seattle home.
“We love Seattle and knew we didn’t want to leave – not only is there a thriving life sciences community, but between the mountains, the water and the city there is so much to do and experience,” she said. “When we looked around in our neighborhood, we didn’t see anything that really fit our needs, so we decided to take on the project ourselves.”
The couple first undertook the construction of a small backyard cottage as a feasibility project before embarking upon the larger house build. They quickly discovered that Justine’s skills in translational medicine and cell therapy were beneficial to the project in an unexpected – and very helpful – way.
“Working in a novel space like cell therapy really prepared me to undertake a project like a home construction build – in a lot of ways, they’re actually very similar,” she said. “Both require planning, preparation and focus – but of course – both also involve failure, resilience and flexibility.”
Throughout the process of construction, Justine and her husband faced multiple setbacks, including issues with design, sourcing – and not to mention, a global pandemic. However, a true scientist by nature, Justine pushed forward, learning from these challenges and implementing a new path forward to accomplish their goals.
“In looking back at our project, there actually isn't much I would change. There's a few design tweaks here and there I wish I would have thought of, but they're insignificant,” she said. “I'm really grateful that we've been able to move forward with the project. Like science, I wish we could have done it sooner and faster, but I am happy with what we have accomplished and will count that as a success.”
With cell therapy assets progressing through the pipeline at work, and the finishing touches about to be implemented on her home, Justine is excited about what she has built.
“The idea of a home base is so important, in all aspects of life. I hope that the spaces I am building – in and out of the workplace – and the opportunities that they enable, provide people with space to explore, grow, collaborate and discover new things that make the world a better place.”
Justine Dell'Aringa
Director, Translational Research, Immuno-Oncology and Cell Therapy
Read bio
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Cancer Research ,
Research and Development
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Learn more about Justine Dell'Aringa and her work at Bristol Myers Squibb >
Cell therapy’s got talent – and is looking for more >
Improving Patients’ Lives Through Cell Therapy Research and Development – Kristen Hege >

February 13, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company