
Analyst coverage
Bristol Myers Squibb (NYSE: BMY) is followed by these analysts.
Investors
Analyst coverage
Firm
Analyst
Atlantic Equities
Steve Chesney
Bank of America
Geoff Meacham
Barclays
Carter Gould
Berenberg
Luisa Hector
BMO
Evan Seigerman
Cantor Fitzgerald
Olivia Brayer
Citi
Andrew Baum
Daiwa
Narumi Nakagiri
Goldman Sachs
Chris Shibutani
Guggenheim
Seamus Fernandez
HSBC
Rajesh Kumar
Jefferies
Akash Tewari
JP Morgan
Chris  Schott
Morgan Stanley
Terence Flynn
Morningstar
Damien Conover
Raymond James
Dane Leone
SVB Leerink
David Risinger
TD Cowen
Steve Scala
Truist
Robyn Karnauskas
UBS
Trung Huynh
Wells Fargo
Mohit Bansal
William Blair
Matt Phipps
Wolfe
Tim Anderson
Bristol Myers Squibb is followed by the analysts listed above. Their research and estimates are included in consensus estimates with
Firstcall Research
or
FactSet . Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Bristol Myers Squibb's performance made by these analysts are theirs alone and do not represent opinions, forecasts or predictions of Bristol Myers Squibb or its management. Bristol Myers Squibb does not by its reference above or distribution imply its endorsement of or concurrence with such information, conclusions or recommendations.
Materials on this website may contain information about the Company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained on this website should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
In addition, any information contained on this website was current as of the date presented and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Consequently, the company will not update the information contained on the website and investors should not rely upon the information as current or accurate after the presentation date. The website may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for a particular quarterly period are available on the company’s website at
www.bms.com .​​​

April 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company