
Why partner with us
We take a distinct, decisive approach to partnering that leverages the best of Bristol Myers Squibb and the best of our partners.
Business development
Why partner with us
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Our approach to partnering
We have a distinct and decisive approach to partnering that leverages the best of Bristol Myers Squibb and the best of our partners to speed transformational medicines to patients. We strive to be a partner of choice and establish a creative and customized approach for each agreement.
Our business development approach
Our partnering approach is transparent, direct and fully engaged with our leadership allowing us to execute agreements quickly and effectively. Our business development team brings deep science, development and business expertise to quickly align with our partners to foster successful relationships. Business development, R&D and commercial teams work closely together to source innovation that will combine leading science, technology and research with our development and commercial expertise.
Our alliance management approach
Our approach centers on delivering a differentiated partnering experience to support long-term collaborations and relationships. We optimize the value of our alliances by being a premier biopharma partner of choice and maximizing the potential of our partners’ science to create powerful solutions for patients.  Our dedicated, experienced alliance management teams ensure a focus on each partnership by:
driving joint steering committees to ensure successful discovery, development, commercialization, and manufacturing of partnered assets
enabling stakeholders to make key decisions that progress joint assets forward
Our focus on collaborative relationships
Beginning with our search and evaluation team, through transactions, and finally to alliance management, we bring a collaborative mindset focused on alignment around opportunities, efficient process, and open, transparent communication. Our dedicated alliance management teams foster productive and transparent relationships with our partners, building and maintaining alignment across functions, ensuring constant progress against shared objectives, and enabling quick decisions to advance our asset.  Working closely with our Leadership Team, we drive engagement across the Bristol Myers Squibb enterprise to ensure we are responsive and accessible at every step of our collaborative programs.
Interested in working with us?
Begin a discussion >

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company