
Doing business with us as a supplier
This is where you can learn more about becoming a supplier, the types of goods and services we're looking for, and our sustainability areas of focus including climate and environment, human rights and labor, and supplier diversity. Let's work together to make a positive impact on your business and our patients.
About us
Our company
Doing business with us as a supplier
Responsible Sourcing Program (RSP)
Our Responsible Sourcing Program (RSP) is designed to provide enhanced visibility of our suppliers' ESG risks and performance and to encourage continuous improvement across the supply chain through ongoing management and engagement.
We will work collaboratively with our suppliers to set goals and targets, and tackle together the many challenges of a complex supply chain. Over time, our expectation is that our suppliers meet specific requirements while simultaneously demonstrating leadership and innovation.
We all have a role to play in addressing our social and environmental impact in the supply chain and we look forward to partnering with our suppliers as we endeavor together on this journey.
To get started, download our Responsible Sourcing Program Supplier Handbook in  English ,
Mandarin ,
日本語 ,
Deutsch ,
Italiano ,
Français ,
Português
or
Español . And visit the  BMS EcoVadis Landing Page  where you can register to take an assessment or share your existing scorecard with us.
Global procurement
Our suppliers can help make a positive impact for patients around the world!
Find information related to evaluating, creating, launching and maintaining a commercial alliance with Bristol Myers Squibb.
Message from our Chief Procurement Officer >
Access supplier link >
What we source >
Supplier diversity
Our success depends on nurturing and growing a diverse supplier base.
View our supplier diversity program >
NABP’s Specialty Pharmacy Accreditation
Bristol Myers Squibb has earned NABP®‘s Drug Distributor Accreditation.
Learn more >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company