
Disease state infographics
Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL)
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is an aggressive, rare form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that originates in the  “mantle zone” of the lymph nodes and is most commonly found in the lymph nodes, bone marrow and spleen.
MCL originates from white blood cells and accounts for about 5% of lymphomas. MCL occurs when there is  an overproduction of a protein called cyclin D1.
While MCL can be slow growing, it tends to be an aggressive and incurable disease, and requires immediate  treatment.
Incidence
An estimated
80,600
people will be diagnosed with NHL in the United States in 2024.
MCL represents about
3-10%
of all new cases of NHL in the United States.
Signs and symptoms
An estimated 80% of MCL patients have symptomatic disease. Some signs and symptoms may include:
Weight loss
Fatigue
Fever
Night sweats
Nausea and/or vomiting
Swelling in the lymph nodes, particularly in the neck, armpit or groin.
Diagnosis
MCL is often diagnosed at stage 4.
Blood tests are needed to receive accurate diagnosis and determine treatment, but additional tests may include:
Comprehensive metabolic panel
Bone marrow tests
Lymph node biopsy
Prognosis
MCL usually responds well to frontline treatment but patients may experience relapse and/or become refractory (R/R) to initial therapy.
Median overall survival for R/R MCL patients is between 9 and 41 months.
These patients currently have limited treatment options available.
Treatment options
Early lines of therapy involve targeted agents, including Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitors.  Other treatment options include:
Stem cell transplant
Radiotherapy
Immunotherapy
Chemotherapy
Cell therapy
It is important for people with MCL to understand their disease, recognize signs and symptoms and
talk to a healthcare professional
about available treatment options.
© 2024 Bristol Myers Squibb. All rights reserved. HE-US-2400466 05/24.
Download Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) Fact Sheet

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company