
Transforming patients’ lives through science ™
As we build for the future, we’re uniting around a single, powerful vision.
About us
Our company
Corporate brand
Pushing new horizons
To reflect the ongoing transformation of our company, we are continuously evolving our corporate brand. At Bristol Myers Squibb, we’re inspired by a single vision—transforming patients’ lives through science. Passionate and precise, we bring life-saving medicines to people around the world. And we work together with compassion to improve outcomes for the patients who need us most.
We bring a human touch to every treatment we pioneer. With great pride, we celebrate each time our patients take back their lives. Our symbol, the hand, is a simple, universal expression of healing, of giving and receiving care. It is a representation of humanity—the personal touch we bring to our work and the inspiration we draw from our patients and people.
Focusing on people, patients and science
Our focus is always on people: the patients we work for, the workforce who discovers, develops and delivers our medications, and the partners with whom we collaborate.
PEOPLE
LIFE
SCIENCE
Commitment to our global community
As a responsible global citizen, we will continue to take all necessary actions to promote public health and carry out our mission of providing life-saving medicines to the patients who depend on us around the world.
At Bristol Myers Squibb, every day is a new frontier. Every innovation, every treatment is a chance to give people back their lives.
— Chris Boerner, Chief Executive Officer
Join us as we transform patients’ lives through science
Every day, each of us works to improve outcomes for patients fighting serious diseases. We're creative thinkers motivated by the practical application of our work, and innovators unafraid to step into uncharted territory. Together, we're building a better future for each other and the patients who need us most.
Join our team >

June 07, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company