
Welcome to Bristol Myers Squibb California
Bristol Myers Squibb’s robust presence in California is transforming the way cancer and other difficult-to-treat diseases are approached.
Learn more about our scientific innovation in the Bay Area
Explore BMS California
Innovation in California >
Community impact >
Career opportunities in California >
Inclusion & diversity >
View our California fact sheet >
“We really have the privilege of being able to build on many decades now of not just scientific insight into how molecules work, but we also importantly understand what it takes to take those molecules and turn them into medicines for people living with serious diseases.”
Neil Bence, PhD, vice president, head of Oncology Discovery, San Diego site head
“Our investment in STEM goes beyond the lab and works to capture the scientific curiosity of the next generation. Such an investment not only supports our company’s mission to help patients prevail over serious diseases, but also benefits the community as a whole by making science accessible to underrepresented minorities, offering exciting careers in science and nurturing talent as one of the key resources for our future.”
Chétna Rao, PhD, head, Global R&D STEM Strategy, Brisbane
“We are in this era where we know so much about complex tumors. At Bristol Myers Squibb, we have such a toolbox of modalities today. We can go with a monoclonal antibody biologic. We can have a protein degrader, a cell therapy. When you have all these modalities of treatment available to match to the right patient, I think it’s going to really become transformational.”
Michael Pourdehnad, MD, senior vice president, Early Clinical Development, Hematology/Oncology and Cell Therapy, Brisbane site head
“I've known about the amazing work BMS has been doing in Redwood City for a long time. It was a fascination and love of continuing to help patients that led me to Bristol Myers Squibb, and I'm excited about what's to come from our sites here.”
Debbie Law, DPhil, senior vice president, Non-Clinical Research and Discovery Biotherapeutics, Redwood City
“I love what I do because of its impact on patients. I am a pediatric oncologist by training and have seen first-hand the difference my work can make for children with cancer.”
Ashley Koegel, MD, executive director, Early Clinical Development, Brisbane
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
3 R&D sites in Brisbane,
Redwood City & San Diego
1000+
employees in California
$3.8 million delivered
in giving & sponsorship support in
2022 to local organizations & programs
serving communities in California
For more information: visit our
California fact sheet
Driving innovation in California
Learn about our broad scope of scientific innovation in California
Explore our San Diego site
Pioneering path in protein degradation >
Women in R&D >
Crystallizing exponential possibilities in protein degradation >
Community impact
Learn about how we are making a difference in communities across California
Empowering communities along the West Coast for a better tomorrow >
Encouraging the next generation to pursue STEM education >
Scientific and hiking adventures to inspire the next generation of researchers >
Join us as we transform patient lives through science
Every day, each of us work to improve outcomes of patients fighting serious diseases. Together we’re building a better future for each other and the patients who need us the most.
Join our Bristol Myers Squibb California team >
Inclusion & diversity
A BMS science career blossoms with the help of a mentor >
People and business resource groups >
Celebrating women in STEM: The sky’s (not) the limit >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company