
News & Perspectives
C2C4C: Back on the road and bigger than ever
Rides have raised more than $12 million to help fund cancer research worldwide to date
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
July 28, 2022
This year, C2C4C is back and bigger than ever.
Nearly a decade ago, the first Coast 2 Coast 4 Cancer cycling event began with 53 employees riding 3,000 miles across the U.S. to honor loved ones impacted by cancer by raising funds for cancer research. Now in 2022, there are more than 350 participants from 23 countries, covering more than 6,000 miles for cancer.
Where did all those volunteers come from? Riders in Europe joined the efforts in 2016 with the first Country 2 Country 4 Cancer ride, and colleagues in Japan debuted the Continent 2 Continent 4 Cancer ride in 2021.
Collectively, the bike rides are known as C2C4C and have raised more than $12 million for cancer research worldwide benefiting charities that fund leading-edge cancer research in their region of the world.
Expanding to new locations
As the 2022 season kicks off, C2C4C is expanding to include Latin America, where more than 65 employees will alternate riding in Chile between Puerto Varas to Pucón for nearly 1,800 kilometers, with the goal of raising funds for organizations that are members of the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC).
"C2C4C has embodied our long-standing commitment to cancer research for nearly a decade,” said Chris Boerner, executive vice president, chief commercialization officer, Bristol Myers Squibb. “In 2022, we are excited to expand the reach and impact of C2C4C to Latin America. Now with four rides occurring around the globe, I am so proud of our team of colleagues who are riding for patients while raising funds for cancer research."
However, these events are more than just bike rides. Patients are the driving force behind our employees’ efforts to volunteer their time to train, fundraise and pedal in these epic journeys.
For many, the motivation to participate and advance cancer research is personal. Some are riding in honor of those who have lost their lives from cancer or are currently battling the disease. Others are survivors themselves.
Jonathan Siade-Cox, senior territory business manager, Hematology, is riding in honor of his sister, who was diagnosed with angiosarcoma while eight months pregnant with a baby girl in 1995. “At the time, awareness was low and there was little information available on treatment options,” said Jonathan. “Each year there are advances in cancer research and my hope is that we will reach a point when regardless of the cancer type, doctors will know what to do.  Participating in this ride is one way I can do my part to help make this hope a reality.”
Worldwide efforts
In addition to the new ride in Latin America, C2C4C returns this year to Europe, where more than 90 riders from 16 countries will kick off the rides on September 2 in Munich, Germany, and finish 18 days later in Geraardsbergen, Belgium covering nearly 2,200 kilometers.
In Japan, seven teams of more than 70 employees will ride C2C4C again, starting September 22 in Makuhari, Chiba, and culminating 21 days later on October 12 in Otemachi, Toyko after nearly 2,100 kilometers.
"I am excited for my colleagues in Europe and Japan with the return of C2C4C this year to those two regions. For many, it will be their first time riding in the life-changing experience that is C2C4C,” said Adam Lenkowsky, senior vice president, Major Markets, Bristol Myers Squibb. “Participating in C2C4C deepens our patient-centric dedication while raising funds to advance cancer research for the Union for International Cancer Control in Europe and CancerNet Japan."
In the U.S., nine teams of riders will relay across the country from September 7 through October 3, starting in Cannon Beach, OR, making their way across the Rockies, and crossing the finish line in Long Branch, NJ, 27 days and nearly 3,000 miles from the start.
“Many of our employees have been affected by cancer, which makes the work we do very personal,” said Catherine Owen, senior vice president, general manager of U.S. Cardiovascular, Immunology, and Oncology, Bristol Myers Squibb. “Coast 2 Coast 4 Cancer gives them the opportunity to ride for loved ones impacted by cancer. We are honored, once again, to support the V Foundation to raise funds for research and make a genuine difference in the lives of people living with cancer."
All funds raised in this year’s C2C4C ride will benefit the V Foundation to support their groundbreaking cancer research programs and mission to achieve victory over cancer.
“Our riders inspire me with their tireless dedication to doing more for patients,” said Boerner. “I’m honored to be part of a company that makes patients a priority in its business and its culture. C2C4C reflects the importance of our patient-centered culture among our workforce, and I’m not surprised at all to see the rides continue to grow, with all the passion of the teams driving them.”
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Cancer ,
Cancer Research ,
Our Culture
For more information on how to support an individual rider, an entire team or the rides, visit:
Europe Country 2 Country 4 Cancer
(September 2 – September 19)
www.uicc.org/c2c4ceu
U.S. Coast 2 Coast 4 Cancer
(September 7 – October 3)
www.cancerbikeride.org
Japan Continent 2 Continent 4 Cancer
(September 22 – October 12)
https://congrant.com/project/cnjdonation/4365
Latin American Continent 2 Continent 4 Cancer
(November 30 – December 14)
www.uicc.org/c2c4cla  (website launching September 16)
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Bristol Myers Squibb employees from 30 nations will cycle and celebrate 11 years of C2C4C >
Revelations in oncology: Reflecting on the past and charting the future in cancer research >
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >

August 24, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company