
Chinese Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
Hepatitis B & C
Chinese Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control
The Chinese Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control will establish a Center of Excellence for Hepatitis Prevention and Control in China. The center will focus on preventing and controlling viral hepatitis in Asia.
Need
Since 2002, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Delivering Hope
initiative has supported 18 projects in China focused on hepatitis awareness, prevention and control. Most of these pilot-based projects were limited to districts in selected provinces. Although the work has informed viral hepatitis policy and practices, there are large areas of China in which hepatitis awareness, prevention and control remain significant unmet medical needs.
Project
The Chinese Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control will receive $1,137,312 over three years to establish a Center of Excellence for Hepatitis Prevention and Control in China.
The center, a collaboration of Foundation grantees in China, will compile and disseminate evidence-based results from successful models for preventing and controlling viral hepatitis in Asia. These models were developed by grantees of the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Delivering Hope ™ initiative. The center will also collaborate with other aligned health and social organizations to scale-up and replicate them in more communities.
Delivering Hope ’s partners in China will work together to execute hepatitis intervention programs and leverage their own experiences to develop tool kits that will target a wide range of groups at risk for viral hepatitis.
The center also will increase the profile of hepatitis B and hepatitis C in China to mobilize additional resources to combat these diseases. In addition to encouraging government support for hepatitis intervention, the center will seek out other business partners to sustain the effort against hepatitis infections.
Partners
​Wu Jieping Medical Foundation
Shanghai Charity Foundation
Inno Community Development Organization
See where we are helping

September 17, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company