
Welcome message from our Chief Procurement Officer (CPO)
About us
Our company
Doing business with us as a supplier
Message from our CPO
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
I am pleased to let you know that Bristol Myers Squibb’s acquisition of Celgene is now complete. We are one global biopharmaceutical company with a robust portfolio of innovative medicines and a broad R&D pipeline to help patients prevail over serious diseases. Please join us in recognizing this important step forward on behalf of our patients.
We recognize our suppliers as partners in innovation and forward-thinking business approaches, as well as providers of goods and services that help us discover, develop and deliver medicines. Moving forward, we at Bristol Myers Squibb, including our new Celgene colleagues, will continue to embrace a collaborative and performance-oriented culture with valued partners like your organization.
We are currently working with many of our suppliers to identify synergies that will allow us to capture value in our newly combined company. We know you are as excited as we are about expanded opportunities to support our combined research & development and commercial portfolio. We understand that it is very motivating for your organizations to join us in serving patients around the world.
Key strategies that will empower us to achieve our goals and sustain value include for the combined company include:
Optimizing supplier alliances and partnerships
that drive world-class innovation and efficiencies.
Collaborating with you
to enable the success of near-term launches.
Ensuring business continuity
to deliver for our patients without disruption.
For the short term, each of the legacy Bristol Myers Squibb and legacy Celgene organizations will continue to transact operational processes (e.g. purchase orders and invoicing) in its respective legacy systems. We will share changes as we implement our plans to integrate the two companies. Please note that the Procurement organization is your primary point of contact. Should you have questions about engaging with the new combined company, please connect with your existing Procurement contact at Bristol Myers Squibb and/or Celgene.
Our success as two individual companies would not have been possible without partners like you. We are committed to continuing our engagement with you during our integration and maintaining the high standards of ethics and integrity we expect from you.
Your support and collaboration are paramount as we work to deliver for our patients.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Farryn Melton
Senior Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer

January 09, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company