
Featured Researcher: CP Chang – Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - CP Chang
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Ching-Pin (CP) Chang, MD, PhD
Vice President, Cardiovascular Discovery Biology and Translational Pharmacology
Brisbane, CA
Biography
Ching-Pin (CP) Chang, MD, PhD, serves as vice president, Cardiovascular Discovery Biology and Translational Pharmacology at Bristol Myers Squibb’s Brisbane, CA, site. In this role he has helped build the company’s team and research capabilities in Brisbane, focused on discovering and developing targeted therapies for serious cardiovascular diseases.
CP’s team studies the biology of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and other cardiovascular conditions to help identify novel targets for potential treatment and inform how the company will build out its technologies and pipeline to create transformative therapies for heart diseases.
CP joined Bristol Myers Squibb in 2021 by way of MyoKardia, where he built a disease biology program focused on understanding and targeting genetic causes of cardiomyopathy. Prior to MyoKardia, CP served as the head and senior director of Cardiovascular Biology at Gilead Sciences and held academic positions at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Indiana University and Stanford University, where he mentored both research and clinical trainees.
CP grew up in Taiwan and received his medical school education from National Taiwan University. He then moved to the U.S. to receive his PhD in cancer biology at Stanford University where he focused on molecular interactions between protooncogenes and oncogenic mechanisms. CP received medical residency training at Massachusetts General Hospital, cardiology fellowship training at Stanford University, and physician-scientist research fellowship at Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
Interests and Expertise
CP built his own lab at Stanford to study the genetic, epigenetic and RNA mechanisms of heart development and cardiomyopathy, and he later became a university-tenured professor at Stanford. CP has received numerous awards in recognition of his work, including multiple high-impact publications in top-tier journals. Because of his contributions to the field, Krannert Institute of Cardiology in Indianapolis appointed CP as endowed scholar and chair in Cardiology and was funded by an Eli Lily Family Foundation’s Physician-Scientist Initiative to build a molecular cardiology and translational medicine platform.
At his leisure, CP likes to read, travel and go hiking with friends and family.

July 07, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company