
Our technologies
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are utilizing innovative technologies to accelerate every aspect of our business.
About us
Our company
Our technologies
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
At BMS, we are unleashing the power of digital technologies to advance our mission and vision to transform patients’ lives through science, driving our ambition to get more medicines to more patients faster, in ways that enhance outcomes. We’re putting technology at the service of our talented professionals in every facet of our organization, helping each of our 34,000+ employees do their best work every day. Technology makes us more productive, agile and efficient through every stage of our work, from research and early development to drug development, manufacturing and supply chain and through to commercialization.
Pioneering the future of medicine
“We want to accelerate our pipeline to deliver transformational medicines to patients around the globe. Pairing cutting-edge research and technology with our unmatched understanding of causal human biology, we aim to provide the best outcomes possible for patients today and in the future.”
Robert Plenge, Executive Vice President, Chief Research Officer, Head of Research
“The state of artificial intelligence and machine learning is similar to where we were with personal computers in 1980 — we are just getting started and there is so much more to discover. Technology and digital capabilities will transform our ways of working — from how we develop medicines, to how we improve the patient experience, to how we run our core business operations.”
Greg Meyers, Executive Vice President, Chief Digital & Technology Officer
“As we develop new medicines, we leverage clinical, real-world data and translational data, along with an understanding of what is most important to patients. This data-rich approach fuels the next wave of patient-centric, personalized drug discovery, opening the doors to nearly limitless innovation.”
Samit Hirawat, Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer, Head of Development
Explore the ways we are accelerating innovation
R&D predictive technologies
Our researchers are deploying the latest approaches in AI: data mining, robotics process automation, predictive modeling and in silico molecular design, to name a few.
At BMS, this is core to increasing the chances of success in the clinic – paving new paths for patients around the world. BMS’ “3D” approach to clinical innovation, which combines data, design and digital technologies, is helping to build faster and more targeted drug-development programs.
Learn more
From numbers to knowledge: Unlocking the predictive power of data to accelerate transformative science >
Accelerating paths of promise: Data and predictive technology at Bristol Myers Squibb >
Digital health
We recognize that the future of healthcare extends beyond traditional medicines. By seamlessly integrating digital technology with pharmacology, we are committed to driving transformative changes in clinical practices.
Our vision places the patient at the heart of this evolution, ensuring better outcomes and a brighter health future for all.
Learn more
Consumer wearable technology advancements may support AFib detection >
Using the power of technology to better serve our patients >
Artificial intelligence & machine learning
We’re taking our unique strengths as a company and building on them. Using technology, we are accelerating and enhancing our business and scientific pursuits.
Bolstering our incredible scientists, researchers, clinicians and engineers with the power of computer and data science, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML).
AI for better, faster clinical trials >
Learn how we are exploring ways to leverage these technologies at many stages of drug development.
Bristol Myers Squibb tech and digital chief develops a game plan for generative
AI
Join us as we transform patients live through science
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Related content
Our research >
Our vision is to discover, develop and deliver transformational medicines for patients through our internal discovery efforts and innovative collaborations.
Partner with us >
We have a distinct and decisive approach to partnering that leverages the best of Bristol Myers Squibb and our partners to speed transformational medicines to patients.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company