
Hepatitis B & C
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
Hepatitis B & C
Each year, nearly 1 million people worldwide die due to hepatitis B or hepatitis C,  forms of viral hepatitis that cause liver inflammation and over time can lead to cirrhosis or liver cancer. Hepatitis B is endemic in China and eastern Asia, where most people become infected during childhood, and many of the 150 million people who are chronically infected with hepatitis C live in the Asia Pacific region.
Success Stories
More Than Medicine
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation Reaches New Heights to Help Lower Viral Hepatitis Burden in China.
Read More >
Delivering Hope
Hepatitis Awareness, Prevention and Care in China and India
Since 2002, our
Delivering Hope™
initiative has been helping communities and healthcare workers in China and India raise awareness about the dangers of hepatitis B and hepatitis C. This initiative has also helped inform health policy and national programs, enabled health care providers and communities to better address these diseases, and promote disease prevention.
Learn More >
Our Grantees​
Hepatitis B & C in China and India
Since 2002, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s  Delivering Hope ™ initiative has been helping communities and healthcare workers in China and India effectively raise awareness about the dangers of hepatitis B and hepatitis C, inform health policy and national programs, build the capacity of healthcare providers and communities to address these diseases, and promote disease prevention in the hardest-hit and greatest at-risk populations.
Delivering Hope  has awarded more than $15 million to 50 projects in Asia since 2002. In China alone, more than 8 million people who are at high risk of hepatitis infection have benefitted from  Delivering Hope  programs over the past decade.
All-India Institute of Diabetes and Research (AIIDR)
The All-India Institute of Diabetes and Research (AIIDR) will receive $487,324 over three years to improve access to diagnostic and preventive services for patients with hepatitis B virus living in rural areas of Gujarat State, India. AIIDR will work with the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar as a technical partner on a multi-level response to the hepatitis B epidemic that will address failures and gaps in multiple systems that have allowed for epidemic outbreaks of hepatitis B, increase vaccinations and awareness of safe injection practices among healthcare workers and enforce regulations for proper handling of biomedical waste among the public and hospital staff.  (Read More)
Chinese Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control
The Chinese Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control will receive $1,137,312 over three years to establish a Center of Excellence for Hepatitis Prevention and Control in China. The Center, a collaboration of Foundation grantees in China, will compile and disseminate evidence-based results from successful models for preventing and controlling viral hepatitis in Asia that were developed by grantees of the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Delivering Hope ™ initiative and collaborate with other aligned health and social organization to scale-up and replicate them in more communities.
(Read More)
Hepatitis B Foundation
The Hepatitis B Foundation will receive $313,609 over three years to develop a program to promote chronic hepatitis B virus self-management for 1,500 patients in Haimen City, China, and to educate patients on how to become knowledgeable partners with their healthcare providers.
(Read More)
HOPE Initiative
The HOPE Initiative will receive $691,373 over three years to establish a Center of Excellence in India that will expand a successful school-to-community approach to control hepatitis B virus (HBV) and type 2 diabetes throughout the country. The Center of Excellence will be a hub that acts as a think tank and knowledge center for HBV and type 2 diabetes and develop a model of intervention that can be replicated.  (Read More)
Inno Community Development Organization
The Inno Community Development Organization will receive $332,913 over two years to develop and implement a program for the migrant and mobile populations in Guangzhou, China, that will raise awareness about hepatitis C virus (HCV) and establish 10 HCV intervention centers to help prevent and control spread of the disease.
(Read More)
Liver Foundation, West Bengal
The Liver Foundation, West Bengal will receive $647,520 over three years to establish a Center of Excellence in India that will build the capacity of rural health practitioners in providing primary and preventive care for liver and metabolic diseases. The center, a legacy project for Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Delivering Hope
initiative in India, will leverage lessons learned from prior projects and help create a comprehensive healthcare agenda for India’s rural population.  (Read More)
MAMTA Health Institute for Mother and Child
MAMTA Health Institute for Mother and Child will receive $500,660 over three years to improve care for patients infected with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) in rural and urban areas in two districts in India by increasing prevention and early disease management efforts. The project will contribute to reducing the socio-economic impact of the diseases at the individual, community and population levels.  (Read More)
Peking University Education Foundation
The Peking University Education Foundation will receive $308,000 over three years to create a virtual, web-based community for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) patients in China and provide them with the tools to better self-manage their disease. The virtual internet community will be available to physicians who can use it for education and communication with their patients and colleagues who practice in rural areas.
(Read More)
SAMARTH
SAMARTH will receive $333,115 over three years to develop training activities that will enable grantees of the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Delivering Hope
initiative in India to strengthen their ability to self-monitor their programs aimed at combating Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and to better prepare for external program evaluation.  (Read More)
United Way of Mumbai
The United Way of Mumbai will receive $695,533 over three years to implement focused medical interventions and conduct extensive community education among underprivileged populations in a specific municipal ward in Mumbai City, India, to reduce the risk of viral hepatitis as well as other prevalent infectious diseases.  (Read More)
World Hepatitis Alliance
The World Hepatitis Alliance will receive $95,000 over nine months to create an e-learning tool that will help physicians establish and maintain existing hepatitis patient support groups, primarily in China and India, but with the ability to reach the global community.
(Read More)
Wu Jieping Medical Foundation
The Wu Jieping Medical Foundation will receive $545,904 over three years to study what influences hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment and investigate management and education of the disease among at-risk populations in China.
(Read More)
Hepatitis C in sub-Saharan Africa
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that between 130 million and 150 million people worldwide are infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV). While sub-Saharan Africa is among the hardest hit areas, a lack of information about who and how HCV is affecting the region is hampering an effective response. The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s  SECURE THE FUTURE ® initiative is expanding on its work in HIV, tuberculosis and cervical and breast cancers in sub-Saharan Africa to determine the scope of HCV infection in the region, help establish screening and treatment guidelines for Africa and use established models that increase access to care for key populations.
The Gastroenterology Foundation of South Africa
The Gastroenterology Foundation of South Africa received a grant of $165,485 for 18 months to develop guidance for screening, detection and treatment of HCV of chronic viral hepatitis C (HCV) by the end of 2016 and to improve knowledge in Sub-Saharan Africa on the management of viral hepatitis, including other liver diseases.
(Read More)
TB/HIV Care Association
TB/HIV Care Association received a grant of $746,737 for a 3-years project to reduce transmission of viral hepatitis C and provide patient care through prevention and treatment initiatives in high-risk populations consisting of sex workers (SWs), men who have sex with men (MSM) and people who use drugs (PWUD).
(Read More)
National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NCID)
The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NCID) received a grant for $249,794 for a 3-year effort to reduce transmission of viral hepatitis B and C, improve care of the patients through prevention and treatment and assess hepatitis C and HIV co-infection rates in high-risk groups in seven cities throughout South Africa.
(Read More)
Delivering Hope
Since 2002, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Delivering Hope ™ initiative has been helping communities and healthcare workers in China and India effectively raise awareness about the dangers of hepatitis B and hepatitis C, inform health policy and national programs, build the capacity of healthcare providers and communities to address these diseases, and promote disease prevention in the hardest-hit and greatest at-risk populations.
Delivering Hope
has awarded more than $15 million to 50 projects in Asia since 2002. In China alone, more than 8 million people who are at high risk of hepatitis infection have benefitted from
Delivering Hope
programs over the past decade.
The World Health Organization estimates that between 130 million and 150 million people worldwide are infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV). While sub-Saharan Africa is among the hardest hit areas, a lack of information about who and how HCV is affecting the region is hampering an effective response. The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s SECURE THE FUTURE® initiative is expanding on its work in HIV, tuberculosis and cervical and breast cancers in sub-Saharan Africa to determine the scope of HCV infection in the region, help establish screening and treatment guidelines for Africa and use established models that increase access to care for key populations.

February 20, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company