
Stand up, stand supported,
stand proud
PRIDE Alliance recognizes Pride Month 2023
About us
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
People and business resource groups
Stand Up, stand supported, stand proud
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
We recognize and celebrate the diverse experiences and views of our workforce, and encourage every employee to bring their full authentic selves to work so they can fully engage in a meaningful way and drive our mission of helping patients prevail over serious diseases. PRIDE Alliance is a vital part of that effort by helping to ensure a diverse and inclusive culture that empowers LGBTQ+ inclusion, awareness and engagement.
PRIDE Alliance is recognizing Pride Month 2023 with a series of thought-provoking, engaging and inspiring virtual events. Our theme this year is
Stand Up, Stand Supported, Stand Proud , a testament to the strength in our communities, the support we’ve given each other over the course of a very challenging year, and the power of pride here at Bristol Myers Squibb.
"Having members of the LGBTQ community in my family, as friends and colleagues, I have seen the challenges that arise in daily life, and I look very much forward to supporting the PRIDE Alliance in the great work you are doing to help address them." ~  Estelle Vester-Blokland, Senior Vice President, Medical Affairs, International Markets
What I do  - In my role as senior vice president, Medical Affairs, International Markets, I lead our engagement with the medical community and the implementation of our science into clinical practice. I am also the executive sponsor of our PRIDE Alliance People & Business Resource Group (PBRG).
Why BMS is a great place to work  - BMS is a great place to work because of our people, our culture and our passion for patients. Everything we do is for the benefit of patients. We take great pride in enabling all employees to bring their true selves to work to produce science and innovations that accelerate clinical practice. Everyone is empowered to drive better outcomes for patients, our people and our business. Our PRIDE Alliance PBRG embodies what a truly inclusive culture looks like and can accomplish when diverse talent comes together for patients. BMS is the first in the industry to use SOGIIS Data Collection (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, Intersex Status) as standard demographic data in clinical trials. We are also committed to increasing the diversity of the external investigators we engage to perform important research. All of this contributes toward closing knowledge gaps surrounding health and outcomes of LGBTQ patients and their participation in clinical trials. Every day we are making a profound impact for all patients – but there’s still more to do!
Read more [+]
Read less [-]
“BMS promotes a diverse and inclusive culture, which means I am surrounded by like-minded individuals who share the same values as me. Because of this culture, I feel like I can bring my authentic self to work every single day - focusing my attention on the science to deliver transformative medicines for patients.” ~  Brian Hsu, Senior Scientist, Seattle, Washington
What I do  - I am a senior scientist in Translational Research in Immuno-Oncology and Cell Therapy TRC supporting various cell therapy programs, I am a co-lead for the Seattle Culture Champions subgroup which aims to improve the sense of belonging at the local sites. In addition, I am also a co-lead for our Covering and Inclusion initiative within PRIDE Alliance.
Why BMS is a great place to work  - BMS is focused on delivering innovative medicines to patients. This objective is what gives me the drive and motivation to come to work every day. What is also amazing is that BMS promotes and supports an environment where we can all bring our authentic selves to work. I am also excited that there are many efforts across the company, including PRIDE Alliance, that are generating resources to provide a psychologically safe environment where employees can speak up.
Read more [+]
Read less [-]
“I have been able to be my authentic self at BMS since my first day and continue to see that encouragement in meetings, town halls and across all groups within the company. The company celebrates diverse views and perspectives and acknowledges that diversity is not one or two dimensional. We are all multilayered and BMS acknowledges such differences and supports them” ~
Christopher Torres, Associate Director, Lawrenceville, New Jersey
What I do
- I am an associate director in External Affairs within Worldwide Patient Safety, responsible for drug safety agreements with our collaboration partners.
Why BMS is a great place to work
- I love working at BMS because we are all aligned with who we are working for - our patients. I have been able to be my authentic self at BMS since my first day and continue to see that encouragement in meetings, town halls and across all groups within the company. The company celebrates diverse views, welcomes different perspectives and acknowledges that diversity is not one or simply two dimensional. We are all multilayered and BMS recognizes such differences and applauds them. I feel that no matter what meeting or event, my voice is always heard, my ideas are analyzed and I have been supported for always being ME.
Read more [+]
Read less [-]
"Being authentic and visible is not always comfortable but it is always right!" ~  Paul Ashley, Senior Director, Princeton, New Jersey
What I do  - I lead a team within Strategic Sourcing and Procurement responsible for Communications, Professional Development, Inclusion and Change Management initiatives across our global organization. Additionally, I serve on the Board of Directors for both the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) and Garden State Equality, New Jersey’s Largest LGBT rights organization.
Why BMS is a great place to work  - BMS is a great place to work because I get to be my authentic self every single day while driving impact in the communities that reflect our patients. Never in my career have I been able to merge my personal passions with my professional goals and drive meaningful change in diverse communities across the country.
Read more [+]
Read less [-]
“BMS promotes and supports a diverse and inclusive culture focused on patients. That’s important to me. And BMS doesn’t just talk the talk but walks the walk. The company truly encourages everyone to bring their authentic selves to work and maintains a psychological safe workplace environment” ~  Jennie Scragg, Legal Operations Supervisor, Steinhausen, Switzerland
What I do
- I am the legal operations supervisor for our Global Capabilities Hub (GCH) and our facilities in Europe. I am also the founder and leader of the PRIDE Alliance for Austria, Switzerland and the GCH.
Why BMS is a great place to work
- BMS promotes and supports a diverse and inclusive culture focused on patients. That’s important to me. And BMS doesn’t just talk the talk but walks the walk. The company truly encourages everyone to bring their authentic selves to work and maintains a psychological safe workplace environment. Starting the local PRIDE Alliance chapter and “mixing” my personal life with my business has really helped me grow both as an employee as well as a leader. It has been extremely fulfilling to be able to openly support my LGBTQ colleagues and help others understand the challenges we face as well as different perspectives in life and family.
Read more [+]
Read less [-]
“I love it when a discussion is started about BMS culture because you will usually find me somewhere upfront singing loud and proud about it. I work in an environment that embraces the importance of its culture of inclusion that makes me comfortable in feeling proud to be me and appreciate the fact that I can bring every element about me to work” ~
Angeleta Washington, IT User Experience, Tampa, Florida
What I do
- I am responsible for virtual agent Chabot capabilities, artificial intelligence programs that simulate human conversations to help provide answers to questions, for our
MyBMS
internal portal. I am also a leader in our PRIDE Alliance communications team.
Why BMS is a great place to work
- Our culture and the level of pride that everyone has in the work that they do for our patients. I love it when a discussion is started about BMS culture because you will usually find me somewhere upfront singing loud and proud about it! In a previous job, I felt like I couldn’t be a Black African American LGBTQ woman in technology, not at all. BMS was a game changer for me in many ways. Now, I work in an environment that embraces the importance of its culture of inclusion. That makes me comfortable in feeling proud to be me and appreciate the fact that I can bring every element about me to work.
Read more [+]
Read less [-]
Related content
The LGBTQ+ community finds a welcoming, inclusive environment within BMS
BMS colleagues with LGBTQ+ loved ones find support in FLOAT program
A welcoming culture: BMS' PRIDE Alliance impacts colleagues and patients
Resources for job seekers
Search & apply
Do real world work that matters.
Search available jobs >
Our locations
Where we are located across the globe.
View our locations >
LinkedIn
See our company page on LinkedIn.
Learn more  >
Glassdoor ratings
See employee reviews on Glassdoor.
Read reviews >
Bristol Myers Squibb is an equal opportunity employer. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veteran status, pregnancy, citizenship, marital status, gender expression, genetic information, political affiliation, or any other characteristic protected by law.  For our EEO Policy Statement, please click  here . If you’d like more information on your EEO rights under the law, please click here.   EEO is the LAW  and  Supplemental Information .

March 27, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company