
American Cancer Society Comprehensive Lung Cancer Patient Support Program (CLCPSP)
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Our focus area
Combating cancer
American Cancer Society
The American Cancer Society (ACS) will develop and implement a Comprehensive Lung Cancer Patient Support Program (CLCPSP) that will provide an evidence-based, multi-level intervention that promotes high quality, patient-centered coordinated care to lung cancer survivors in Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, West Virginia, South and North Carolina, Kentucky and Tennessee. ACS will work with several expert teams including cancer information specialists, resource coordination specialists, health insurance assistance specialists, clinical trial matching specialists and oncology nurses to ensure that patients receive comprehensive support along the continuum.
Need
In 2016, there were 38,580 newly diagnosed lung cancer cases from the 8 target states.  While the number of cancer survivors is growing, there are fewer survivors of lung cancer than other cancers such as breast or prostate, given the often asymptomatic nature of the disease and resulting diagnosis at a later stage. However, with the increased use of low dose computerized tomography (LDCT) screening for lung cancer, more cancers are being found early and at a treatable stage.  This will result in an increasing number of lung cancer survivors and it is imperative that models of survivorship care are established for this patient population.
The Institute of Medicine’s report
From Cancer Patient to Cancer Survivor: Lost in Transition
(2006) represented a clarion call to the oncology community to ease the transition of survivors upon completion of treatment.  Moving from an intense period of treatment in which the patient frequently has contact with their treatment team to a “non-system” with little guidance and few guidelines for life after treatment, patients can often feel overwhelmed and depressed. (NCI OCS, 2010).
Project
The American Cancer Society (ACS) will develop and implement a Comprehensive Lung Cancer Patient Support Program (CLCPSP) that will provide an evidence-based, multi-level intervention that promotes high quality, patient-centered coordinated care to lung cancer survivors living in the targeted geographic states of Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, West Virginia, South and North Carolina, Kentucky and Tennessee. ACS will work with several expert teams including cancer information specialists, resource coordination specialists, health insurance assistance specialists, clinical trial matching specialists and oncology nurses to ensure that patients receive comprehensive support along the continuum.
Project Leader
Katherine Sharpe,
katherine.sharpe@cancer.org
See where we are helping

September 17, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company