
News & Perspectives
Health equity takes center stage at the 2020 global virtual cancer conference
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
December 07, 2020
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Last month, Bristol Myers Squibb joined with GRYT (“grit”) Health, a digital oncology company that empowers people to be in charge of their own health, to host the second annual Global Virtual Cancer Conference (GVCC). The conference has drawn more than 2,000 registrations, and offers education, advocacy and connection through 20 programmatic tracks that feature 60 speakers; 50 virtual booths featuring resources from patient advocacy organizations and education about clinical trials; and personal interaction among attendees.
All sessions at GVCC20 were recorded and are now available on the platform at
www.GVCC20.com
until December 14.
The resources at the Virtual Exhibit Hall and Clinical Trial Fair booths are also available. Access to this information is free with registration at
www.GVCC20.com , including the exclusive keynote with Jim Kelly, Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback for the Buffalo Bills and three-time oral cancer survivor.
“It was an honor to join the remarkable line up of industry professionals, advocacy leaders, patients and survivors at GVCC20,” said Davide Piras, senior vice president, worldwide oncology, Bristol Myers Squibb, who presented opening remarks at the conference. “Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to transforming lives and improving the world we live in, and we’re confident that by working together, we can expand health equity and diversity and inclusion efforts on a global scale. We are proud to support this important initiative and applaud GRYT Health for their relentless focus on the patient experience.”
Included in the program of virtual presentations were interactive sessions on Bristol Myers Squibb’s
Study Connect ,
PEER
(Patient Expert Engagement Resource) and the
Advocacy Exchange Program s.
“Aside from the amazing amount of information shared in the virtual presentations, we are proud of the overwhelming positive response of GVCC20 from our community,” said Dave Fuehrer, chief executive officer of GRYT Health and cancer survivor. “Through this two-day virtual conference, we were able to share resources and knowledge with patients, survivors and caregivers many had never experienced previously and inform them about the right questions to ask to improve their quality of life and overall health outcomes.”
Bristol Myers Squibb is the Founding Partner of the GVCC, which launched last year to unite patients, advocates, innovators, experts and healthcare change makers in a fully virtual conference accessible by anyone, anywhere.
Advocacy Exchange Website >
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Advocacy ,
Cancer Research
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Meet Tabitha >
Lifting up the patient voice >
Winter's story: Living with ulcerative colitis >

November 01, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company