
News & Perspectives
Help shine a light on the battle against lung cancer
November 13, 2016
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
by Fouad Namouni, M.D. Head of Oncology and Immuno-Oncology Development
Talking about lung cancer – the signs, symptoms and effect it has on the lives of those living with the condition and their loved ones – is more important today than it has ever been. Lung cancer is not only the most common cancer in the world, it is also the leading cause of cancer death worldwide. In fact, the more than 1.5 million deaths around the world each year attributed to lung cancer are more than those related to colorectal, breast and prostate cancers combined.
Our commitment to addressing the needs of patients and caregivers impacted by this disease has never been stronger. Throughout the year, and during Lung Cancer Awareness Month, Bristol Myers Squibb works to provide access to care, empower patients and their loved ones through education and advance scientific research in lung cancer around the world.
“
The more than 1.5 million deaths around the world each year attributed to lung cancer are more than those related to colorectal, breast and prostate cancers combined.
”
Recognizing caregivers and addressing disease information needs in the U.S.
In the U.S., we recognize the
tremendous role caregivers
and loved ones play in helping people with lung cancer manage their care. We also understand that finding the right information about the disease can be a challenge. We partnered with eight lung cancer patient advocacy groups in 2015 to create
NavigateLungCancer.org , a one-stop-shop of information for patients and caregivers. We are also working to shed light on the experiences of those caring for people with lung cancer to better understand their needs.
“
Our commitment to addressing the needs of patients and caregivers impacted by this disease has never been stronger.
”
Changing disease perceptions in the european lung cancer community
There is a high prevalence of lung cancer in Europe and it is the number one cancer killer in that region of the world. We partnered with Lung Cancer Europe (LuCE) and actor Jack Huston on The Next Lung Cancer A.C.T. campaign to raise awareness and promote a dialogue aimed at humanizing the disease, dispelling stereotypes and encouraging people to learn about lung cancer. Through our partnership with LuCE, we have been able to spotlight patients and their supporters – sharing personal experiences of those who have gone through lung cancer with the hope of encouraging others to talk openly about the disease and patient needs.
“
In the U.S., we recognize the tremendous role caregivers and loved ones play in helping people with lung cancer manage their care.
”
Join in the Conversation
Please follow us on  Twitter  and  Facebook  where we are sharing educational information throughout the month. You can also join the conversation to show support for everyone impacted by lung cancer. Help us spread the word during #LCAM16.
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Cancer
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Bristol Myers Squibb employees from 30 nations will cycle and celebrate 11 years of C2C4C >
Our multiple myeloma story: Collaboration drives progress >
'It was something I'll never forget' >

November 01, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company