
Anne-Marie Sotire, Head of Human Resources, R&D, enjoying downtime with her daughter.
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Global Inclusion and Diversity
Embracing gender diversity
The Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women regularly shares the secrets of leaders who maintain fulfilling professional and personal lives
May 11, 2018
The mission of the Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women (B-NOW) is to drive business performance at Bristol Myers Squibb embracing gender diversity.
Through regular events and activities, B-NOW is working to ensure that women are recruited, retained, advanced and developed globally at Bristol Myers Squibb while creating a workplace that is powerfully diverse and globally inclusive. B-NOW, which boasts more than 4,000 members, is one of several People and Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) within Bristol Myers Squibb that employees can join.
One of the benefits of joining B-NOW is hearing about how leaders achieved their positions while maintaining their personal lives. In a series of regularly scheduled lunches, a small group of members are invited to hear a leader’s story and ask questions.
“
Finding balance between personal and professional successes are individual. There is no ‘one size fits all’ approach. Finding the appropriate success is a journey that requires long-term investment. — Johanna Mercier, Head of U.S. Commercial
”
Having access to a senior leader in these small-group discussions allows for candid conversations. It also invites sharing across the group on how both leaders and members have handled finding balance between work and their personal lives. As a follow-up to the lunches, the B-NOW team shares highlights from the discussion with members through social media as well as internal newsletters and websites. The featured insights allow a larger group to benefit from the conversations.
“
Finding the time to give 100% effort at work and at home is a big challenge. It takes thoughtful dedication at work and collaboration at home to find the right balance. — Simona King, Head of Finance, Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis
”
Please visit
Global Diversity & Inclusion
to learn more about PBRGs at Bristol Myers Squibb
related articles
How BMS is closing the diversity gap in clinical trials >
Celebrating women in STEM: Latin America's changing landscape >
Juneteenth: Remembering the past, reimagining the future >

February 24, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company