
News & Perspectives
Disaster relief information for patients
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
September 29, 2022
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Our thoughts are with all members of the communities impacted by Hurricane Ian. As we have many patients and employees who live in the impacted areas, we deeply appreciate the commitment and tireless effort of community-based organizations towards immediate- and long-term recovery.
Bristol Myers Squibb continues to be ready and willing to help our patients. If a patient taking a  Bristol Myers Squibb product  encounters a disruption in access to their prescription medication due to the storms, or is enrolled in a Bristol Myers Squibb clinical trial, they should contact the Bristol Myers Squibb Customer Information Center at  1-800-332-2056.  If you or a loved one are participating in a Bristol Myers Squibb clinical trial and have been impacted, email us at  clinical.trials@bms.com  or call  1 - 855-907-3286.  Agents are standing by from 8 AM to 8 PM EDT Monday through Friday and are eager to help find the Bristol Myers Squibb programs that best address the patient’s individual needs.
To make sure that this information reaches our patients who may not know where to turn for help, we are sharing this information through many channels, including BMS.com and social media. If you know of patients who are impacted and may need our help, we ask that you please share this information as appropriate.
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
BMS Foundation
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Answering the urgent call for more hematologists in Africa >
PharmD resident takes journey of a lifetime >
Global HOPE treats 10,000th child  >

September 11, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company