
Our company
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
About us
Our company
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we believe in the power of science to address some of the most challenging diseases of our time. Our focus on these unmet needs comes during a remarkable time, when unprecedented scientific breakthroughs are advancing the treatment of disease as never before in human history.
We work every day to transform patients’ lives through science. Each day, our employees around the world work together for patients – they are at the center of everything we do. They inspire us. They are the reason we come to work each day. We combine the agility of a biotech with the reach and resources of an established pharmaceutical company to create a global leading biopharma company powered by talented individuals who drive scientific innovation.
We are proud of the advancements we have made in oncology, hematology, immunology and cardiovascular disease, and we are dedicated to helping patients prevail over serious diseases through our diverse and promising pipeline and new scientific platforms.
As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work. We conduct our global business with the utmost integrity and transparency. We support programs, initiatives and organizations that help improve health, expand research opportunities, promote and expand STEM education and deliver basic human services to our communities.
We know that our responsibility goes beyond medicine. We promote health equity globally and strive to increase access to life-saving medicines for populations disproportionately affected by serious diseases and conditions. We achieve this in part through the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, which supports community-based programs that promote cancer awareness, screening, care and support among high-risk populations.
Explore our company
Our mission, vision, values and commitment >
Our principles >
Our technologies >
Global patient week >
Survivorship today >
Patient and employee stories >
Committed to creating a better future for cancer patients >
History timeline >
Governance >
Doing business with us as a supplier >
Achievements >
Worldwide locations >
Corporate brand >
Our mission, vision, values and commitment
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharma company firmly focused on its mission to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines to patients with serious diseases.
Learn more  >
Leadership
Our culture of inclusion and strong commitment to patients starts at the top.
Leadership team >
Board of directors >
Governance
Everything we do is guided by our unwavering dedication to our mission, vision, values and commitment.
Review governance standards >
Principles
We believe that the priceless ingredient of every product we make is the integrity of its maker.
Read about our principles >
Locations
Find out more about specific Bristol Myers Squibb facilities around the world.
View locations >
Doing business with us
We do business with companies run by people from diverse backgrounds. Let's work together to create a positive impact on our patients and your business.
Learn more  >
Information for suppliers >
Achievements
Our focus is always on helping patients, but it's nice to be recognized for the work we do.
View awards and achievements >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company