
Our partnerships
A rich heritage in business development
Business development
Our partnerships
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
We have a rich heritage in business development.
We have a rich heritage in partnering with a long history of successful scientific and commercial collaborations.  Partnering has been an integral part of our evolution to become a leading biopharma company – it’s part of our DNA.
As critical drivers of our strategy, external innovation and partnering have brought significant commercial success and pipeline growth. Twelve of our company’s twenty blockbuster medicines are derived from collaborations.In addition, more than sixty percent of our current development pipeline is externally sourced bringing significant external innovation to complement our internal capabilities and innovation.
Our long and proven track record of partnering exhibits speed, transparency, flexibility, creativity and above all, a focus on innovative science and delivering transformational medicines to patients.
“
"Bristol Myers Squibb was the right partner who brought the optimal deal structure, considerable capabilities and a commitment of resources."
Transaction partner
”
Business Development in the news
Month-Year
Details
December 2023
BMS Strengthens Neuroscience Portfolio with Acquisition of Karuna Therapeutics.  Learn more >
December 2023
BMS Adds Premier Radiopharmaceutical Platform with Acquisition of RayzeBio.  Learn more >
October 2023
BMS Strengthens and Diversifies Oncology Portfolio With Acquisition of Mirati Therapeutics.
Learn more >
August 2022
Acquisition of Turning Point Therapeutics to expand precision oncology portfolio.
Learn more >
August 2022
Collaboration with GentiBio to develop engineered Treg therapies for inflammatory bowel diseases.
August 2022
Collaboration with PathAI to try to utilize artificial intelligence (AI)-powered pathology in translational research and clinical trials.
June  2022
Expanded strategic alliance with Immatics to develop gamma delta allogeneic cell therapy programs.
Learn more >
May  2022
Exclusive license with BridgeBio Pharma to develop and commercialize BBP-398, a potentially best-in-class SHP2 inhibitor, in oncology.
January  2022
Collaboration with Century Therapeutics to develop iPSC-derived allogeneic cell therapies.
Learn more >
December 2021
Immatics and Bristol Myers Squibb Enter Into Global Exclusive License for Immatics’ TCR Bispecific Program IMA401.  Learn more >
June 2021
Agreement with Eisai Co., Ltd for the co-development and co-commercialization of MORAb-202, an anti-folate receptor alpha (FRα) antibody drug conjugate (ADC).
Learn more >
May 2021
Agenus and Bristol Myers Squibb Announce Exclusive Global License for Agenus’ Anti-TIGIT Bispecific Antibody Program.  Learn more >
March 2021
Partnership with bluebird bio results in FDA approval of Abecma (idecabtagene vicleucel), the first anti-BCMA CAR T cell therapy for relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
Learn More >
November 2020
Acquisition of MyoKardia, subsequently resulting in Bristol Myers Squibb receiving U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for Camzyos™ (mavacamten) for the treatment of adults with symptomatic New York Heart Association class II-III Obstructive Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM) to improve functional capacity and symptoms.
Learn More >
September 2020
Acquisition of Forbius to gain access to a portfolio of highly selective and potent inhibitors of TGF-beta 1 & 3 which are key mediators of immunosuppression and fibrosis. The lead investigational asset, AVID200, is currently in Phase 1.
Learn More >
August 2020
Agreement with Dragonfly to license their IL-12 investigational immunotherapy program including its extended half-life cytokine DF6002 which is currently in Phase 1/2 clinical trials for patients with advanced solid tumors.
Learn More >
July 2020
Research collaboration with Dragonfly to develop novel therapeutic candidates for multiple sclerosis and neuro-inflammation targets.
Interested in working with us?
Begin a discussion >

February 14, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company