
About us
We are a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
Committed to creating a better future for cancer patients >
Explore about us
Our company >
Leadership >
Global inclusion and diversity >
Responsibility >
Sustainability at BMS >
Contact us >
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we work every day to transform patients’ lives through science. We combine the agility of a biotech with the reach and resources of an established pharmaceutical company to create a global leading biopharma company powered by talented individuals who drive scientific innovation.
We have the brightest people in the industry and believe that their diverse experiences and perspectives help to bring out our best ideas, drive innovation and achieve transformative business results.
Each day, our employees around the world work together for patients – patients are at the center of everything we do. They inspire us. They are the reason we come to work each day.
We are proud of the advancements we have made in oncology, hematology, immunology and cardiovascular disease, and we are dedicated to helping patients prevail over serious diseases through our diverse and promising pipeline and new scientific platforms. We are pursuing therapies at the forefront of scientific discovery with the goal of bringing an exciting new generation of life-changing treatments to patients. We aspire to be at the center of a vibrant healthcare innovation ecosystem, where academic research centers, biotech and biopharma companies all contribute to continued scientific advancement.
As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work. We conduct our global business with the utmost integrity and transparency. We support programs, initiatives and organizations that help improve health, expand research opportunities, promote and expand STEM education and deliver basic human services to our communities.
We know that our responsibility goes beyond medicine. We promote health equity globally and strive to increase access to life-saving medicines for populations disproportionately affected by serious diseases and conditions. We achieve this in part through the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, which supports community-based programs that promote cancer awareness, screening, care and support among high-risk populations.
Our company
Read more about our mission, leadership, operations and governance >
Our shared values are central to who we are, what we do and how we do it. Passion, innovation, urgency, accountability, inclusion and integrity ground our work and unite our community. We never give up in our search for the next innovation that could mean new hope for patients who are urgently seeking new treatment options today.
Survivorship Today >
Patient and employee stories >
Ethics and Compliance
Our policies and procedures are designed so that the company and our partners conduct business in a legal, ethical and responsible manner. It's essential to our integrity and success.
Our achievements, awards and recognitions >
Doing business with us as a supplier >
Global Inclusion & Diversity
Our workforce is globally diverse to create an inclusive, high-performance culture that is agile, entrepreneurial and accountable.
Our commitment to equal employment opportunity >
People and business resource groups >
Our commitment to Global Inclusion & Diversity >
Sustainability at BMS
Preservation of natural resources is one of our key commitments. We lead the way with sustainable, ethical, and compliant global business practices that take care of patients, communities and the planet.
Our approach to sustainability >
Environment, health and safety >
Tracking environmental performance >
Responsibility
It's about doing the right thing for the patients we serve around the world. We take action on many fronts to reduce health disparities and improve outcomes in communities that are disproportionately affected by serious diseases.
Compliance & ethics >
Increasing access to medicines >
Supporting our communities >
Our position on key issues >
Corporate & community giving >
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation>
We promote health equity and seek to improve the health outcomes of populations disproportionately affected by serious diseases.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company