
Environment, health and safety policy
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Governance
EHS management system
Environment, health and safety policy
The following updated policy was approved and signed by our CEO on August 4, 2010.
Bristol Myers Squibb Company is committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of its employees, contractors, customers and the public by conducting business in a safe and environmentally sustainable manner.
The Company will comply with all applicable governmental regulations, and establish and implement internal Company requirements and management systems designed to assure Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) compliance and continuous performance improvement. Bristol Myers Squibb will conduct periodic evaluations to monitor EHS compliance and performance at all of its businesses worldwide.
Bristol Myers Squibb will integrate principles of resource conservation, pollution prevention and environmental stewardship into its business processes, facilities, operations, and products. The Company will work with its business partners to foster responsible practices among its suppliers, contractors and customers. Bristol Myers Squibb will partner with employees to raise awareness, share information and enhance accountability for safety, health and environmental protection.
The Company will cooperate with government, industry, academia and the public in support of regulations, research and programs that address areas of EHS concern.
The Company will conduct open communications and dialogue on workplace health, safety and environmental sustainability issues with its employees and stakeholders, and will respond to EHS concerns and suggestions. Bristol Myers Squibb will establish proactive EHS goals and will report publicly on progress and impacts.
Activities governed by this Corporate Policy will be conducted in accordance with applicable governmental regulations, related Corporate Directives and Standard Operating Procedures.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company