
Science
From bench to bedside and back to bench: Translating science into meaningful outcomes for patients
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
May 31, 2017
Our stories
/
Science
Immuno-Oncology (I-O) research is quickly evolving, with new advances that bring us closer to precision cancer treatment. Translational medicine – research to further our understanding of cancer biology and to identify the patient populations most likely to derive benefit from I-O therapy – is a driving force behind these discoveries and is playing an increasingly important role in cancer research.
Translational medicine encompasses many different areas of  basic research . Our interdisciplinary teams are working together to answer key questions and more intimately understand the interplay between the immune system and cancer.
Here, members of our translational medicine team share more about their work and the important role translational medicine will play in the future of oncology treatment:
Clinical Pharmacology & Pharmacometrics
Hear from Tarek Leil, head of Quantitative Clinical Pharmacology, about an emerging innovative discipline that uses mathematical mechanistic models; and Tunde Bello, head of Clinical Pharmacology & Pharmacometrics, and his research into the behavior of drugs in the body
Leveraging Bioinformatics
Hear from Joe Szustakowski, head of translational bioinformatics, about how his team uses raw data and distills that into a useful biological signals.
Right treatment, right patient, right time
Through our research into the tumor microenvironment, we are learning more about how a patient’s dynamic tumor biology can be used as a guide for treatment decisions throughout his or her cancer journey. We continue to investigate the role of  PD-L1  ,  tumor mutational burden, and gene signatures of inflammation, and other potentially predictive biomarkers – both tumor and peripheral biomarkers – to better inform and predict the benefit of current and future approaches. Additionally, our teams continue to evaluate potential diagnostic tools to help identify those biomarkers in patients leveraging less-invasive methods such as liquid biopsy.
To learn more about how BMS is exploring the research behind why some people respond to immunotherapy and others do not,  click here .
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Immunotherapy
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Revelations in oncology: Reflecting on the past and charting the future in cancer research >
One woman's account of living with ulcerative colitis >
Doing R&D "differently" to transform treatment for serious diseases >

February 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company