
Resources & learnings
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Resources & Learnings
Our learnings drive us all forward
Our grantees are continually developing innovative research and tools to improve quality and access to care. Learn more about their findings here.
Grantee summit
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation holds an annual Joint Grantee Summit where we share lessons learned, address challenges and discuss solutions in health care delivery for medically underserved populations. Learn more below about current and past Grantee Summits.
2021 Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation U.S. Grantee Summit
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation hosted a grantee summit with the theme "Reimagining a More Equitable Future Together." The summit brought together nearly 200 colleagues from across the globe to share lessons learned, explore innovative solutions to challenges in cancer, cardiovascular and immunologic care for medically underserved populations, and hear from international experts on health equity.
Download Icon
Read summary >
Previous grantee summits
2019 Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation U.S. Grantee Summit
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation holds their fourth annual joint grantee summit for its Bridging Cancer Care and Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations initiatives. This year, the theme of the Summit is “Making a Difference in Health Equity: Visions – Actions – Impacts from the Frontlines.”
Learn more >
2018 Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation U.S. Grantee Summit
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation held their third annual joint grantee summit for the Bridging Cancer Care and Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations initiatives. This year, the focus of the Summit was on providing hope and improving lives for vulnerable and medically underserved populations.
Learn more >
2017 Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation U.S. Grantee Summit
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, in partnership with the National Network of Public Health Institutes, hosted their second grantee summit with the theme of “Focusing on the Patient Experience to Advance Health Equity in Cancer and Specialty Care.”
Learn more >
2016 Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation U.S. Grantee Summit
Innovations and Partnerships for Equity in Cancer and Specialty Care Supporting Innovation and Collaboration to bring Equitable Health to Vulnerable Populations
Learn more >
Resources & materials
Specialty care for vulnerable populations
Breaking the Barriers to Specialty Care , FSG
Achieving Health Equity: A Guide for Healthcare Organizations , Institute for Healthcare Improvement
Optimal Care Coordination Model , Association of Community Cancer Centers
Maine Lung Cancer Coalition , Maine Medical Center
Cancer ECHO , Project ECHO
Addressing Health Disparities CE Module , American Heart Association
Patient Navigation in Cancer Care: Review of Payment Models for a Sustainable Future , Center for Health Law & Policy Innovations at Harvard Law School
Featured grantee publications (Together on Diabetes-US)
Findings from Together on Diabetes: Case Studies , University of Kansas
2015 US Federal Report: Beating Type 2 Diabetes: Recommendations for Federal Policy Reform , Center for Health Law & Policy Innovation
2014 New Jersey State Report: Providing Access to Healthy Solutions , Center for Health Law & Policy Innovation
2014 North Carolina Executive Summary: Providing Access to Healthy Solutions , Center for Health Law & Policy Innovation
Featured publications (Together on Diabetes-US)
The links provided below redirect to third-party websites that may require a subscription to access publications.
Kwan B, Jortberg B, Warman M, et al. Stakeholder engagement in diabetes self-management: patient preferences for peer support and other insights. Family Practice 2017;1-6 , University of Colorado
Kenney A, Chambers RA, Rosenstock S, et al. The Impact of a Home-Based Diabetes Prevention and Management Program on High-Risk American Indian Youth. Diabetes Educator 2016;42(5):585-95. , Johns Hopkins Center for American Indian Health
Cummings DM, Kirian K, Howard G, et al. Consequences of Comorbidity of Elevated Stress and/or Depressive Symptoms and Incident Cardiovascular Outcomes in Diabetes: Results from the Reasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in Stroke (REGARDS) Study. Diabetes Care 2016;39:101-9. , East Carolina University
Lorig K, Ritter PL, Turner RM, et al. Benefits of Diabetes Self-Management for Health Plan Members: A 6-Month Translational Study. J Med Internet Res 2016;18(6):e164. , National Council on Aging
Seligman HK, Lyles C, Marshall MB, et al. A Pilot Food Bank Intervention Featuring Diabetes-Appropriate Food Improved Glycemic Control Among Clients In Three States. Health Affairs 2015;34(11):1956-63. , Feeding America
Fisher EB, Ballesteros J, Bhushan N. Key Features of Peer Support in Chronic Disease Prevention and Management. Health Affairs 2015;34(9):1523-30. , American Academy of Family Physicians Foundation
Kaufman S, Ali N, DeFiglio V, Craig K and Brenner J. Early efforts to target and enroll high-risk diabetic patients into urban community-based programs. Health Promotion Practice 2014; 15(2):62-70S , Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers
Watson LL, BM Bluml. Integrating pharmacists into diverse diabetes care teams: Implementation tactics from Project IMPACT: Diabetes. J Am Pharm Assoc. 2014 Sept-Oct; 54:538-41. , American Pharmacists Association Foundation
Miranda ML, Ferranti J, Strauss B, et al. Geographic Health Information Systems: A Platform for Supporting the Triple Aim. Health Affairs 2013;32(9): 1608-1615 , Duke Clinical and Translation Science Institute
Califf, RM, Sanderson, I, Miranda ML. The Future of Cardiovascular Clinical Research: Informatics, Clinical Investigators, and Community Engagement. JAMA 2012;308(17):1747-48. , Duke Clinical and Translation Science Institute
PGY2 PharmD Public Health Residency
2021-22 BMSF Rutgers Public Health Residency Brochure
Pharmacist leaders in public and global health: Nurturing practitioners at the forefront of an ever-connected world (Priscilla L. Ko, Kya R. Norby, Diane Nguyen)
2020-21 BMSF Rutgers Public Health Residency Brochure
The Intersection of Pharmacy and Global Health (Diane Nguyen, 2013-14)
Global Health Experiences in a PGY2 Public Health Residency (Priscilla Ko, 2014-15)
Global Health and Pharmacy Collide in a PGY2 Public Health Residency (Ishmael Qawiy, 2015-16)
Defining the Niche of a Corporate Foundation in Public Health (Kiydra Harris, 2016-17)
Evolution of HIV in sub-Saharan Africa: Introducing AIDS Related Cancer Programs (Kemi Osundina, 2017-18)
Bringing the Cleanroom to Standard: Cytotoxic Drug Preparation in Eldoret, Kenya (Kya Norby, 2018-19)

January 03, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company