
Pancreatic cancer
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from pancreatic cancer and other conditions of the pancreas. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
Pancreatic cancer
Pancreatic cancer
resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third party sites.
Pancreatic cancer resources
Each year, more than 350,000 people worldwide are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer—one of the deadliest cancers—with the majority of cases diagnosed in late stage. Despite advances in therapy over the past two decades that have led to doubled five-year survival rates, pancreatic cancer five-year survival is still only in the single digits—8%—due to the complex nature of the disease and lack of symptoms until the disease has progressed.
Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research
The largest private funder of pancreatic cancer research provides comprehensive information for navigating this condition.
Learn more >
The National Pancreas Foundation (U.S.)
The National Pancreas Foundation provides hope for those suffering from pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer through funding cutting edge research, advocating for new and better therapies, and providing support and education for patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals.
Learn more >
The Pancreatic Cancer Action Network
Founded in 1999, the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network (PanCAN) is dedicated to fighting the world’s toughest cancer. In their urgent mission to save lives, they attack pancreatic cancer on all fronts: research, clinical initiatives, patient services and advocacy.
Learn more >
Cancer Patients Alliance
Resources and support for pancreatic cancer patients and their families.
Learn more >
Diabetes resources
Diabetes mellitus refers to a group of diseases that affect how your body uses blood sugar (glucose).
Mayo Clinic
Information on the symptoms and causes, as well as diagnosis and treatment of diabetes.
Learn more >
American Diabetes Association
Providing resources, community and support for patients and families affected by diabetes.
Learn more >
Featured news & articles
See all articles
Feb 12TH, 2019 | PEOPLE
Quality time: Focusing on quality of life during pancreatic cancer treatment >
JAN 4TH, 2019 | SCIENCE
Improving value in pancreatic cancer care >
June 2ND, 2017 | SCIENCE
The I-O quest >

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company