
Sandra Leung - Bristol Myers Squibb
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Sandra Leung
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Sandra Leung
Executive Vice President, General Counsel
As executive vice president, general counsel, Sandy Leung serves as legal advisor to the Board of Directors and company executives, and is responsible for shaping the company’s legal strategy. Sandy is also responsible for Environment, Health & Safety & Sustainability, Corporate Security and Philanthropy. In addition, she currently serves as the executive sponsor of the company’s Go Green program.
“The accelerating pace of science, governmental policies and regulations and overall global complexity across our industry requires us to be even more agile than ever,” says Sandy. “Our legal team brings strategic value across all aspects of our business through practical and sound counsel that guide our company in its mission to help patients.”
Sandy joined Bristol Myers Squibb in 1992 as a staff attorney in the litigation department. In 1996, she became assistant counsel and one year later was named associate counsel. In 1999, Sandy was appointed to the position of counsel and corporate secretary. In 2006, she was appointed acting general counsel and in 2007 was named general counsel. In 2014, Sandy was named executive vice president.
Prior to joining the company, Sandy was a prosecutor in the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office.
“My advice to those aspiring to management positions is to be good at what you do. You have to be willing to do the hard work and bring excellent judgment and expertise to the table. Most important, you must have great personal integrity and be someone people can trust. If people trust you, they will feel comfortable seeking your advice. Also, be respectful of people, not just your superiors but everyone.”
Sandy earned her law degree from Boston College of Law and her bachelor’s degree from Tufts University.
Updated: April 2024
PREVIOUS
< Adam Lenkowsky
NEXT
Greg Meyers >

April 15, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company