
New Brunswick, New Jersey
About us
Our company
Worldwide locations
Our research and development locations
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Facts and figures
The New Brunswick facility has been in continuous operation since land was first purchased in 1905. Its focus has changed over the years from a manufacturing facility to a Research & Development facility. Currently the site is approximately 105 acres.
Community and social progress
With the help of Bristol Myers Squibb, Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital (RWJUH) established the Bristol Myers Squibb Children’s Hospital, which celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2011 and is one of the state’s largest and most comprehensive children’s hospitals. Additional gifts helped create three pediatric specialty centers of excellence dedicated to the study and treatment of urgent health challenges facing today’s youth – childhood obesity, infectious disease and rheumatic disease – and enabled the hospital to expand its pediatric surgery services.
Bristol Myers Squibb supports RWJUH community health programs to help African American women improve their understanding about the dangers of cardiovascular disease and take positive steps to improve their health.
Bristol Myers Squibb also supports the Civic League of Greater New Brunswick’s Georges Road Gateway Project, a comprehensive community revitalization plan whose initiatives include improving pedestrian safety in the Georges Road vicinity, redeveloping Pine Street Park and enhancing science and mathematics education for second-graders at Paul Robeson Elementary School.
Bristol Myers Squibb’s donations to the New Brunswick Education Foundation have helped the New Brunswick Public Schools introduce engineering and robotics to middle school students and introduce engineering, biotechnology and environmental science to elementary students. The company also helped New Brunswick High School purchase musical instruments and restore the student orchestra after a 20-year hiatus.
Bristol Myers Squibb supports New Brunswick Tomorrow’s School-Based Youth Services Program, also known as New Brunswick Bridge, which provides comprehensive treatment of mental health issues for public school students and their families, as well as other services and activities designed to help vulnerable children succeed in school.
Bristol Myers Squibb helped Children’s Specialized Hospital provide rehabilitative medical care to children at the hospital’s new ambulatory care center in New Brunswick.
Through its support of the touring educational theater program at George Street Playhouse, Bristol Myers Squibb has helped educate children across New Jersey about the dangers of childhood obesity, diabetes and cyberbullying. The playhouse’s “Austin the Unstoppable,” a musical comedy about one family’s struggles with diabetes and the healthy changes they learn to make, has been performed for nearly 10,000 students since its debut in January 2012.
Each year, Bristol Myers Squibb provides Confined Space Rescue Training for over 60 emergency responders in Mercer and Middlesex counties as part of the Mercer County Technical Rescue Operations Team.
Bristol Myers Squibb employees participate with the Mercer County Technical Rescue Operations Team.
Bristol Myers Squibb provides access to our facilities for training operations for police K-9 teams and hands-on fire extinguisher training for local fire departments and associated agencies.
New Brunswick personnel are members at large of the North Brunswick Local Emergency Planning Council (LEPC).
The Emergency Services, a group of 30 members, includes a Structural Fire Brigade, First Aid Squad, Confined Space Rescue Team, and Hazardous Materials Team who have been serving the facility for over 50 years and proudly provide mutual aid to North Brunswick Township, Middlesex County and with the State Industrial Chiefs Mutual Aid Consortium (MACSICS). Of these 30 members, 13 participate in their local community teams and 3 are officers in their local community.
The New Brunswick site has been recognized as a leader in the Governor's Occupational Safety and Health Awards program for more than 20 years.
The New Brunswick site received an Environmental Stewardship Recognition Award in 2010, 2011 and 2012. The award includes the following categories: Environmental Management Systems, Carbon Footprint Analysis and Innovative Programs.
Environmental performance
The Industrial Hygiene laboratory is among the first in the nation to receive accreditation by the American Industrial Hygiene Association under the new ISO 17025 system. In addition, the laboratory has taken on an expanded role in the areas of methods development, surrogate testing, and surface contaminant evaluation.
This facility is required to report annually on releases of toxic chemicals to the air, water, and land under Section 313 of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) . This website contains a link to the U.S. government's toxic release inventory (TRI) database.
The facility adopted the Yellow Giant Hyssop (Agastache nepetoides) as part of the company's Sustainability 2010 goal to encourage protection of endangered species and habitats.
Focus on sustainability projects
As the largest site in the Bristol Myers Squibb Corporation, the site consumes a significant amount of water and energy. To support the Corporate Sustainability Goals and to maximize infrastructure efficiencies, the site has established cross-functional local teams to focus on improvement projects and employee engagement. Key members also collaborate with regional teams to review data analysis, share energy and water projects, and bring forward new ideas.
Progress toward the corporate goals is a result of focused project management for several water and energy infrastructure efficiency projects such as:
Improved operation of water treatment control systems to maximize water and chemical use, and increase cooling tower cycles.
Chilled water plant optimization project to increase the efficiency of the chilled water plants.
Active steps to reduce its carbon footprint by making site-wide lighting changes to reduce the energy required for lighting.
Actively reusing treated, reclaimed water as make-up water for cooling towers.
Employee engagement is an important element of a successful sustainability program. The New Brunswick facility sponsors key events throughout the year such as Earth Hour, Earth Day and Energy Star Day to promote employee awareness and program ownership. In addition, a New Brunswick Go Green Yammer Site is designed to engage with employees for new ideas, suggestions and create a culture of responsible choices.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company