
News & Perspectives
BMS named one of America's Most JUST companies
Recognition is given to companies that are ‘doing right by their stakeholders’
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
February 05, 2024
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
At Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), we understand the future of our company, employees, communities and planet are inextricably linked. As a leading biopharma company, our passion for making an impact extends beyond the discovery, development and delivery of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. That is why we are working to mobilize our capabilities and resources to improve the health of people, society and the planet today and for generations to come.
Our collective and meaningful progress to drive sustainable change as an organization has earned BMS the
#6 spot for the pharmaceutical and biotech industry
on the annual
JUST 100 rankings , recognizing companies doing right by their stakeholders.
This achievement reflects progress on our Environmental, Social and Governance commitments, which are interconnected to our company's core strategy and focus on:
advancing patient health around the world
by ensuring patients have equitable access to innovative medicines regardless of location or ability to pay;
expanding the boundaries of science
by addressing unmet patient needs while ensuring a more inclusive and sustainable future for clinical research;
fostering a high performing, thriving and inclusive global workforce
by ensuring that our people are at their best so that we can optimally deliver for patients.
Out of nearly 1,000 analyzed companies, BMS’ leadership on community issues, particularly job creation and economic development, contributed to its inclusion in this prestigious ranking. Among the notable achievements are BMS’ efforts to invest more than one billion dollars with small and diverse-owned businesses, creating economic opportunities in underrepresented communities through capacity building and mentorship.
Additionally, BMS was recognized for its ethical interactions with stakeholders, noting efforts to protect customer privacy, which are guided by the company’s Principles of Integrity and Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics.
JUST Capital’s research found Americans are united in their expectations of corporate America: a transparent, stakeholder focused approach where companies “walk the walk.” Importantly, Americans are united in wanting companies to prioritize workers as the most important stakeholder, and this recognition is a reminder of the high performing and inclusive global workforce that we are fostering at BMS.
We are incredibly proud of the progress we’ve made on our journey, and we continue to evolve our efforts to positively impact society. Learn more about Bristol Myers Squibb’s ESG progress in the latest
Environmental Social and Governance Report .
For more information on the JUST 100, see our
press release .
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Our Culture
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >
Our journey to reduce Scope 3 emissions >
Award-Winning Excellence at Premiere Energy Conferences >

February 06, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company