
Debbie Law - Bristol Myers Squibb Featured Researcher
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher: Debbie Law (DPhil)
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Debbie Law (DPhil)
Senior Vice President, Head, Non-Clinical Research and Discovery Biotherapeutics
Redwood City, CA
Biography
Debbie Law serves as senior vice president and head of Bristol Myers Squibb’s Non-clinical Research and Discovery Biotherapeutics organizations. In the role she leads a talented team of researchers including the nonclinical research group encompassing Pharmaceutical Candidate Optimization (PCO) and Nonclinical Safety and Veterinary Sciences (NCSVS), who operate cross-functions and cross-portfolio, employing robust science to enable the optimization, development and registration of safe and innovative medicines; and the Discovery Biotherapeutics team that discovers & develops next generation biotherapeutics and precision biologics, championing the biologics portfolio across BMS.
Prior to joining Bristol Myers Squibb in 2020, Debbie spent time at life science companies across the Bay Area and Boston/Cambridge and Europe, including Janssen, Merck and Jounce Therapeutics and Ablynx nv, the latter two, where she served as CSO. Debbie completed her undergraduate degree at the University of Glasgow and went on to earn her Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) in immunology from the University of Oxford.
Interests and Expertise
Debbie finds herself enamored by science even after she leaves work for the day. In her free time, she enjoys reading about all things science, especially as she finds herself in one of the most invigorating life science hubs in the country: the San Francisco Bay Area.
Debbie was drawn to Redwood City, and later Bristol Myers Squibb, because of the exciting and life-changing work that companies are doing up and down the San Francisco Bay. “I’ve known about the amazing work BMS has been doing in Redwood City for a long time,” she said. “It was a fascination and love of continuing to help patients that led me to Bristol Myers Squibb, and I’m excited about what’s to come from our sites here.”
Surrounding herself with science, as well as working to inspire the next generation of scientists, is just as important to Debbie. Being in an area that attracts such incredible talent, Debbie wants to inspire and mentor the up-and-coming scientists who will make the next great scientific discoveries for patients in need.

February 27, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company