
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Advocacy
Harnessing partnerships to defeat cancer in developing nations
By Amadou Diarra, Head, Global Policy, Advocacy and Government Affairs
Last month in Paris, I joined with an estimated 3,500 cancer experts at the Union for International Cancer Control’s (UICC) annual World Cancer Congress to discuss the latest cancer trends and projections, learn best practices and, most importantly, to partner to conquer cancer.
We are making progress in the fight against cancer. Indeed, in the developed world, some 32 million cancer patients are alive, thanks to advances in prevention, treatment and care.That said, the resources available to address cancer still don’t meet the need. Here in Europe, only 6 percent of the total healthcare expenditure is spent on cancer care, while cancer represents 17 percent of the burden of illness.
“
Here in Europe, only 6 percent of the total healthcare expenditure is spent on cancer care, while cancer represents 17 percent of the burden of illness
”
In less developed regions, where the majority of cancer deaths occur today, the imbalance between available resources and need is even greater. Many barriers keep the world’s poor and most vulnerable populations from access to quality and affordable cancer healthcare.
It is clear that in today’s complex environment, the challenges of cancer healthcare cannot be addressed unilaterally. We need to create partnerships to build capacity of healthcare providers and further train the workforce to care for cancer patients, especially in developing countries. Working together, we must improve sustainable access to care and treatment.
“
We need to create partnerships to build capacity of healthcare providers and further train the workforce to care for cancer patients, especially in developing countries.
”
As a leader, not just in cancer research and treatment, but also in global advocacy and policymaking for patients, Bristol Myers Squibb builds coalitions across the healthcare landscape to make a difference for patients and communities, always keeping patients at the center of everything we do.
It’s imperative that we join with global organizations like the UICC to bring together committed stakeholders, and that we partner with research institutions, patient advocates, cancer service organizations and many more to help address delivery of cancer care across the world. And there is still much more to do.
Bristol Myers Squibb is extremely pleased to join other committed stakeholders on this global platform of the World Cancer Congress, where we can work collectively toward defeating this worldwide health concern.
Read more about Union for International Cancer Control’s (UICC) annual World Cancer Congress .
related articles
Meet Tabitha >
Lifting up the patient voice >
Winter's story: Living with ulcerative colitis >

March 16, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company