
People
Making a molecule
For Ryan Moslin, senior immunology researcher at Bristol Myers Squibb, all great discoveries start from the same place – an idea
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
January 28, 2019
Our stories
/
People
When Ryan Moslin joined Bristol Myers Squibb as an immunology researcher, he already was acutely aware that the road from bench to bedside is long and requires resilience. Still, he set out that day to work on an investigational inhibitor with the potential to treat autoimmune diseases, including a condition Moslin himself lives with.
Despite all of the twists and turns along the way, Moslin says all science has a similar genesis.
It starts with an idea
"Science always begins at the same place…it has to start with an idea,” says Moslin. “There are different approaches and different scientists, so the form that every idea takes is always very different. But it always starts with that one idea, one question."
Hear from Ryan as he details the early drug discovery process, from a medicinal chemist’s point of view
Knowing this, Moslin finds value in working on a team that promotes diverse thought, noting it’s key to the early research and development process.
“When I was looking for a job, I knew that I loved medicinal chemistry but had a bit of a unique background,” says Moslin. “When I came to Bristol Myers Squibb, I was really struck by how the senior leaders within the chemistry department were not only open to people with different backgrounds, they actively sought to bring together people with diverse perspectives to collaborate and solve problems that, until that point, didn't have good solutions.”
Click on image to see Medical Chemistry 101 infographic
From idea to reality
After theorizing an initial idea, chemists identify a target  (something in the body they’d like to modify), as well as a hit (something to modify it). Then, they develop a hypothesis, test the hits against targets and reassess or modify the design. This process can be lengthy and difficult, but eventually, a very small number of molecules are determined viable enough to move into clinical trials for further testing.
Try and try again
If you ask Moslin what word comes to his mind to describe a medicinal chemist – he’s quick to respond: resilient.
“Medicinal chemists face a lot of failure,” he says.
A chemist may touch a large number of programs during a career, maybe 15 to 20 in 25 years, he explains. Of those, a small handful will be programs where the chemist feels a real attachment or ownership. And of that small handful, a researcher may be lucky to see even one or two will actually advance into human trials.
“It's truly a once in a career achievement to advance something into the clinical space, and a once in a lifetime event to bring something to market,” says Moslin.
This resilience, in combination with scientific curiosity, are the hallmarks of medicinal chemistry, cultivating the ideas that spark the long path of drug discovery and allowing Bristol Myers Squibb to continue its mission to discover, develop and deliver therapies to patients in need.
Ryan Moslin, Ph.D
Senior Research Investigator, Early Immunology Discovery
Read bio
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Employee Stories
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Usman's story >
'We take care of our BMS family' : Bristol Myers Squibb Cancer Support Network >
'Broken crayons still color' - Bristol Myers Squibb employee shares cancer journey >

November 15, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company