
Explore our past work
For decades, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation and its grantees have improved the health outcomes for tens of thousands of patients in underserved communities around the world. The programs listed below are no longer being actively funded. However, the information about the work and the lessons learned can be found at the links below. ​
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Cancer
Cancer in U.S. >
The Foundation collaborates with clinic- and community-based service providers to improve health outcomes among underserved populations with cancers.​
Cancer in Africa >
About six in 10 cancer deaths in Africa occur in less developed regions, and disparities in cancer persist among the poor, racial minorities and vulnerable people. The mortality rate for pediatric cancer in Botswana, Malawi and Uganda is as high as 90 percent.
Cancer in Central and Eastern Europe >
While cancer is the second-most common cause of death across Europe, mortality rates for most cancers are highest in Central and Eastern European countries. Low awareness of cancer risk factors, a lack of adequate cancer prevention and screening efforts, and limited healthcare resources in the region contribute to this gap. The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation funds initiatives to address these issues.
Specialty care
With 28.5 million uninsured, poverty and lack of insurance impact the ability of vulnerable populations to access specialty care.
Learn more >
Hepatitis B/C
Some 275 million people in Asia and the Pacific Islands have hepatitis B.
Learn more >
HIV
About 23.5 million people in sub-Saharan Africa are living with HIV — more than two-thirds of the global HIV burden.
Learn more >
Diabetes
Worldwide, more than 396 million people have diabetes, including many who are undiagnosed or undertreated.
Learn more >
Veterans' mental health & wellbeing
Nearly one in four men and women who served in Iraq and Afghanistan suffer with major depression or post-traumatic stress, yet many soldiers who need mental healthcare are not receiving it.
Learn more >
Foundation & Corporate Social Responsibility reports
Learn more >

January 03, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company