
Our research in oncology
We will continue to transform the lives of people with cancer through our groundbreaking science and medicines. Until we can offer every person with cancer a better, healthier life, our job is not done.
Researchers
Areas of focus
Our research in oncology
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Featured in oncology
Intended for healthcare professionals, scientific audiences and media.
Our cancer research strategy leverages our molecular and clinical expertise and deep understanding of causal human biology to guide scientific discovery. Cutting-edge capabilities, differentiated platforms and a precision approach to research and development uniquely position us to attack cancer from every angle.
Doing R&D “differently” to transform treatment for serious diseases >
Immune cell engagers in cancer therapy >
CCR8 immune pathway >
Using a multimodal toolbox to advance cancer treatment >
Exploring the tumor microenvironment >
Bristol Myers Squibb is addressing the complexities of cancer through multiple research approaches.
Building on a legacy of treatments across a broad range of cancers that have changed survival expectations for many, our researchers continue to explore diverse mechanisms, novel modalities and differentiated research platforms in the pursuit of making long-term survival a possibility.
Our deep understanding of tumor biology, the immune system and a passion for patients fuels our focus to discover transformational treatments for the most difficult cancers and to address the growing issue of therapeutic resistance.
Explore our stories
View all
Untangling the complexity of cancer: Opportunities to accelerate the next wave of innovation for patients >
Bringing new meaning to skin-deep: The potential benefits of treating cancers with subcutaneous immunotherapy >
My front row seat to the revolution in immune checkpoint inhibition >
Our oncology focus areas​
Earlier stages of cancer
Gastrointestinal cancers
Genitourinary cancers
Melanoma (skin cancer)
Thoracic cancers
Women's cancers
Earlier stages of cancer
We are leading innovative science with the use of immunotherapies in earlier stages of cancer, especially for patients whose tumors could be removed by surgery. We believe that exploring the use of immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer is important because of its potential to help prevent recurrence and address unmet needs as we work towards a cure for patients.
Scientific and disease-state resources
ESOC terms backgrounder >
Exploring the potential of immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer >
Explore our stories
The move to treat early: Seeking to transform the treatment of cancer in earlier stages of disease >
The quest to stop cancer from coming back >
Experts weigh in: immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer >
Addressing cancer earlier >
Kald Abdallah, driven by a personal passion, wants to discover ways to treat cancer earlier >
Gastrointestinal cancers
We have helped advance the treatment of gastrointestinal cancers including esophageal cancer, gastric, gastroesophageal junction, hepatocellular carcinoma (liver) and colorectal cancer through an understanding of the needs that still remain for patients.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Colorectal cancer >
Esophageal cancer >
Gastric cancer >
Liver cancer >
Explore our stories
View all >
'Not broken, but reborn' >
Meet Ma >
Improving value in pancreatic cancer care >
Genitourinary cancers
Our portfolio and pipeline for genitourinary cancers spans multiple tumor types including bladder, kidney, as well as prostate*. We are exploring immunotherapies and targeted agents across multiple stages of cancer with the goal of helping address the unique needs of GU cancer patients.
*
Pipeline only.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Bladder cancer >
Kidney cancer >
Explore our stories
Bringing new meaning to skin-deep: The potential benefits of treating cancers with subcutaneous immunotherapy >
Reflecting on research in genitourinary cancers >
Melanoma (skin cancer)
By harnessing the power of immunotherapy, we have helped transform the melanoma treatment landscape over the last decade and helped improve survival rates for patients. Today, we continue our research in both early and advanced stages of cancer to further advance the science.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Melanoma >
Explore our stories
The power of dual immunotherapy >
Understanding the potential of LAG-3 >
My front row seat to the revolution in immune checkpoint inhibition >
Thoracic cancers
We have helped redefine the treatment landscape for thoracic cancers and helped extend survival outcomes for patients. With both targeted medicines and immunotherapies, we aim to provide patients with safe and effective treatment options.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Lung cancer >
Mesothelioma >
Explore our stories
Researching lung cancer treatments to give more patients better outcomes >
Approaching thoracic cancers from different angles >
Lung cancer is personal: Interview with Lee James >
How my family's history of cancer inspired me to support others >
The evolution of lung cancer research >
Women's cancers
Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer worldwide. We are researching novel immunotherapy treatment approaches and combinations for people living with breast, ovarian, and cervical cancers.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Breast cancer >
Explore our stories
Progressing our breast cancer research >
The importance of breast cancer advocacy >
Explore our scientific resources
Learn more on our pipeline >
Request an independent research grant >
Search our scientific media resources >
Navigate to BMS Clinical Trials >
Meet our researchers
Learn more about the backgrounds, scientific pursuits and personal interests of members of our R&D team. These individuals are committed to pursuing Bristol Myers Squibb’s goal of discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines to patients.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team

May 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company