
Bristol Myers Squibb completes Global Strategic License and Collaboration Agreement with SystImmune for BL-B01D1, enhancing presence in the ADC space
Investors
BMS completes global license deal with SystImmune
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Bristol Myers Squibb is pleased to announce the completion of its exclusive license and collaboration agreement with SystImmune for BL-B01D1, a potentially first-in-class EGFRxHER3 bispecific antibody-drug conjugate (ADC).
Through the agreement, Bristol Myers Squibb and SystImmune will co-develop and co-commercialize BL-B01D1 in the United States. SystImmune has retained exclusive rights in Mainland China and Bristol Myers Squibb has gained an exclusive license in the rest of the world. BL-B01D1 has potential to treat patients with lung cancer, breast cancer and additional tumor types, with the opportunity to expand into novel combinations with standard of care treatments and Bristol Myers Squibb’s pipeline assets.
About BL-B01D1
BL-B01D1 is a potentially first-in-class bispecific ADC developed by SystImmune, targeting both EGFR and HER3, which are highly expressed in most epithelial tumors. BL-B01D1 comprises SystImmune's proprietary bispecific antibody and linker-payload which contains a stable, cleavable linker and a topoisomerase inhibitor.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. For more information about Bristol Myers Squibb, visit us at
BMS.com  or follow us on  LinkedIn ,  Twitter ,  YouTube ,  Facebook  and  Instagram .
About SystImmune
SystImmune is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company located in Redmond, WA. SystImmune specializes in developing innovative cancer treatments using its established drug development platforms, focusing on bispecific, multi-specific antibodies, and ADCs. For more information visit systimmune.com.
Bristol Myers Squibb Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other things, the research, development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products described herein and the collaboration with SystImmune. All statements that are not statements of historical facts are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives and involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years, that are difficult to predict, may be beyond our control and could cause our future financial results, goals, plans and objectives to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the statements. These risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, that the expected benefits of, and opportunities related to, the collaboration with SystImmune may not be realized by Bristol Myers Squibb or may take longer to realize than anticipated, that the therapeutic potential of BL-B01D1 may change, that Bristol Myers Squibb may fail to discover and develop any commercially successful product candidates through the collaboration with SystImmune, that such product candidates may not receive regulatory approval for the indications described in this release and, if approved, whether such product candidates will be commercially successful.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements in this press release should be evaluated together with the many risks and uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb’s business and market, particularly those identified in the cautionary statement and risk factors discussion in Bristol Myers Squibb’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, as updated by our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and except as otherwise required by applicable law, Bristol Myers Squibb undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise.
Bristol Myers Squibb
Media Inquiries:
media@bms.com
Investors:
investor.relations@bms.com

April 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company