
Independent research
Researchers
Independent research
At
Bristol Myers Squibb , we are committed to providing innovative, high-quality medicines that strive to address the unmet medical needs of patients with serious diseases. Additionally, Bristol Myers Squibb wishes to advance science through supporting novel, independent research that addresses unmet need surrounding our products and therapeutic areas.
We provide support across all phases of development spanning both interventional and non-interventional research. Independent research may be defined within the industry as Investigator Sponsored Research (ISR), Investigator Initiated Research (IIR), Investigator Sponsored Trials (IST) or Investigator Initiated Trials (IIT). The scientific and academic research community may submit a concept application for Investigator Sponsored Research (ISR) through our portal.
Explore independent research
BMS investigator portal >
Areas of interest and competitive research grants >
Compound and technology requests >
Data sharing request process >
The ISR application process is done through an interactive portal allowing all concepts to come into Bristol Myers Squibb via a simple, user friendly website. The ISR portal provides information required to successfully complete your concept submission and transparently enables you track the concept’s progress through governance review. Through the internal governance process, concepts are periodically reviewed for scientific merit and potential to address unmet medical need among other factors. If the concept is endorsed, you may also use the ISR portal as it is a bi-directional gateway providing you with direct access to the internal Bristol Myers Squibb support team.
Bristol Myers Squibb strives to provide responses to concept applications within four weeks of submission to the portal.  Once the new Request for Proposal process (RFP) process is initiated, specific dates for responses will be communicated here along with Areas of Interest (AOIs – see details below on this page).
After meeting strict scientific rigor, all endorsed concepts are expected to:
Have a well-designed protocol submitted within 30 days of endorsement
Be supported by a rapid contracting process
Deliver to agreed timelines
Please contact your local BMS Medical representative or visit
www.globalbmsmedinfo.com
if you have questions.
Submission of a concept does not imply nor guarantee endorsement. Any support provided from Bristol Myers Squibb is contingent upon an executed research agreement.
Investigator sponsored research portal
BMS has moved from a rolling submission process to a request for proposal (RFP) submission process for investigator sponsored research (ISR) in the areas of oncology, hematology, cardiovascular, and immunology & fibrosis. The new RFP based system will ultimately benefit investigators and patients by addressing medical unmet needs in a more focused and efficient manner.
The RFP submission periods will be posted here along with the Areas of Interest (AOIs) for each of the RFP cycles. Please reach out to your Field Medical or BMS Medical contact if you have questions.
For independent research with products that are in the early stages of development, please contact your local BMS medical representative.
There will be no changes for:
Ono Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. alliance ISRs within Japan, Korea, & Taiwan, Ltd. collaborations.
Global Expert Centers Initiative (GECI) oncology collaborations.
Requests for support of investigator sponsored research using Apixaban
Non-clinical research studies
Areas of interest
Bristol Myers Squibb is seeking independent research applications across all indications. Within our Areas of Interest, we may outline specific criteria & therapeutic areas but may not include specific details.  Concept applications submitted that best align with our interest will be considered & evaluated.
Areas of interest >
Competitive research grants >
ACTioN
Learn more about our research to bring CAR T into autoimmune diseases
Autoimmunity cell therapy network >
Compound and technology/materials
For researchers interested in obtaining compounds/materials for laboratory and/or animal research.
Learn more >
Submit request >
Data sharing
Bristol Myers Squibb fully supports the principles of enhanced transparency through sharing data from clinical trials on our approved medicines with qualified researchers.
Data sharing request process >
Download Icon
Principles on data sharing >
Submit data request >
See disclosure commitment >

June 06, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company