
Corporate giving FAQs
About us
Responsibility
Corporate giving
Giving FAQs
General Information and Eligibility
What types of giving does Bristol Myers Squibb support?
Bristol Myers Squibb supports worthwhile causes and conscientious citizenship in three main ways:  Corporate Giving ,  Independent Medical Education ,
Community Giving , and the  Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation . To learn more about Corporate Giving and Community Giving, please see the FAQ, below. For more information about the BMS Foundation, please click
here .
What types of requests are in scope for BMS Corporate and Community Giving?
Requests in scope for Corporate and Community giving include those with a health-related public mission and/or patient focus from organizations such as hospitals or other similar healthcare facilities, community health centers, medical or other professional societies, patient support or advocacy organizations, and community organizations in locations where  BMS employees live and work.
Examples include requests for Charitable Donation, Independent Medical Education, Corporate Sponsorship Support, Corporate Membership, Scholarships, Fellowships, Patient Education Support. For Community Giving, this includes science education requests and initiatives directed at addressing unmet medical needs and helping people in need in the communities where our employees live and work.
Which organizations are not eligible to apply?
BMS does not support the following types of organizations:
Political, lobbying, fraternal or social clubs/organizations
Religious organizations that engage in activities that are primarily sectarian in purpose.
Organizations that discriminate based on race, gender, religion, culture, age, national origin, physical disability, sexual orientation, status as a military veteran, or any other legally protected status.
What types of requests are ineligible for funding through BMS Corporate Giving?
Requests for Exhibit-only support
Funds to benefit a specific individual. BMS accepts requests from organizations and not from individuals
Endowments
General operating expenses, including but not limited to funding of salaries for health care providers or administrative staff
Funding for creation of a new organization
Political campaigns or lobbying activities
Clinical trials (please refer to
here .)
Can one organization submit multiple requests for different activities?
Yes. An organization may submit multiple requests for different activities. Each request is reviewed on its own individual merits.
May I submit a request focused on a disease area that is not specified in Bristol Myers Squibb’s areas of interest?
Yes. However, please note that Bristol Myers Squibb prioritizes funding of requests that fall within our areas of therapeutic interest.  Please refer to the current
BMS areas of therapeutic interest
for more details.
If a giving request is approved, may the requesting organization use the Bristol Myers Squibb logo?
For use of BMS’ logo, tag, or any other type of recognition, please contact your internal stakeholder at BMS.
General application and submission information
How do I submit my proposal for Corporate or Community Giving?
All applications must be submitted through the online
CyberGrants system .
May I send the application directly to a Bristol Myers Squibb representative or another contact at Bristol Myers Squibb?
Only online requests will be considered. All applications must be submitted through the online
CyberGrants system . Once your online application is submitted, you will receive an acknowledgement at the e-mail address indicated on your application.
If I want to mail a copy of my request for review, to whom do I address it?
Please do not mail any requests. Only online requests will be considered.
I have a global program that takes place outside the US. Can the budget be submitted in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar?
Yes, you may submit the budget in a local currency other than the U.S. Dollar.
Where can I find out about the status of my request after submission?
The status of your request can be found on your Welcome / Applicant portal page once you log in to the system.
Is there a specific time period for submitting Letters of Requests? How long does it take to review a proposal?
Applications for funding requests are accepted year-round.  We generally process requests within six to eight weeks of receiving a completed application and all required supplementary materials. Please be aware, however, that Bristol Myers Squibb cannot commit to process any request within a specific time period. In addition, “Requests for Proposals” or “Requests for Education” posted by Bristol Myers Squibb have specific submission deadlines.
Whom may I contact for Corporate Giving and Community Giving related questions?
For general questions for Corporate Giving and Community Giving, please email
grantsandgiving@bms.com . Alternately, you can also call +1-800-831-9008 from 8:00 am to 4:00 pm EST.
Letter of request application process
What is the Letter of Request (LOR)?
The
Letter of Request
is a simple online application containing basic questions about the request for funding. All types of funding requests must be submitted through this LOR application.
Did you make a change to the Letter of Request application form?
Yes, effective March 2020, we removed the list of application forms (Letter of Request) in multiple languages and moved to one consolidated Letter of Request which can be viewed in 11 different languages.
Upon logging in to your account, information will be displayed in the language based on your computer browser default language setting. But, there is also the ability to manually change the language by clicking on the dropdown located in the top right corner of the log in and home portal pages. Once a new Letter of Request is open it
will not
be possible to change the language again.
The languages we support are: English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Chinese, Dutch, Russian, Turkish, Korean, Portuguese and Japanese.
Payment process
What is the process?
Upon approval, Bristol Myers Squibb will send a Letter of Agreement (“LOA”) which needs to be executed by an authorized person associated your organization. Upon receipt of the signed LOA, Bristol Myers Squibb Corporate Giving will initiate the payment process.  A Purchase Order will be generated and an email notification will be sent to the organization. The email notification will provide instructions on how and where to submit the invoice.
What is needed to receive payment?
You must submit an invoice according to the instructions in the email that will be sent. The PO number must be included on the invoice document.
Who do I contact if I have questions?
If you have a question on the request you can contact
grantsandgiving@bms.com . Please include specific account payable contact information (both email address and phone number)
Online application system (CyberGrants)
Are there specific system requirements for using the CyberGrants System?
You must have both cookies and JavaScript enabled on your browser to successfully log in.  The recommended system requirements for best viewing/functioning of the site are a Windows Operating System and a resolution of 800x600 (or higher).
Where can I obtain training materials for using the CyberGrants System?
Click  here  to access the training guide for using CyberGrants system.
I am a first time user - how do I create a new account?
If you are a first time user and wish to submit an application, click  here  to access the “Letter of Request” application. Once you are on the Application login page, click on the link that says, “Click here to create your password.” This will bring you to the online registration form.
How do I change my password?
If you know your current password, please log in and go to your profile. “Edit Profile” is located on the upper right of the screen. Click on that link and you will be able to change your password.
How can I associate myself with an organization?
On the Welcome / Applicant Account page, there is a link at the top that you can click (“Click here to add a new organization to your account”). From there, complete the requested organizational information. The new organization will then be added to your Welcome / Applicant Account page.
Can I access a request that was submitted by another individual from my organization?
Only the individual who submitted the request will be able to see the request, even if submitted for the same organization.
How much information (number of characters) can I provide in the application paragraph text fields?
Paragraph fields have a 2000 character maximum. As you type, the number will count down accordingly. Note: In Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox browsers, there is an option to drag the corner to expand the box (not supported by Internet Explorer).
Do I have to save every page as I complete the application?
No. Once you move to a new section of the application, all of the information you previously entered is automatically saved. If you do not finish the application and exit the browser, you will be asked to log in again, with your e-mail address and password, to access the application you are working on.
How do I return to an incomplete application that I saved, but have not yet submitted?
You will receive an e-mail notification confirming that your application was saved, along with the e-mail address and password required to access your saved application. This e-mail will also include the web address of the login page.
Can I get a copy of the application form?
When you are in the actual application, you can print a copy by clicking File>Print. Otherwise, there is no paper copy of the application available. The entire process is online.
How will Bristol Myers Squibb communicate the status of my request?
All communications will occur via e-mail. After you submit your application, you will receive an e-mail confirmation. After an initial review, you may be contacted to provide additional information. After review, you will receive an e-mail notifying you if your request was approved (subject to the execution of a Funding Agreement) or not approved.
Why didn't I receive an e-mail notification from Bristol Myers Squibb confirming the receipt of my request?
You may not have received a Bristol Myers Squibb e-mail notification for various reasons. Please explore the following:
Confirm the accuracy of the email address listed on the application.
Check that you have finalized your application and clicked “SUBMIT”.
If you have submitted your application, check your organization's or provider's spam filter and folders. If your spam filter is enabled, you may not receive important information from Bristol Myers Squibb regarding your application.
If you were not listed as the contact person on the funding request application, you will not receive any correspondence from Bristol Myers Squibb regarding the application. Any BMS correspondence related to a funding request is directed to the contact person’s e-mail address provided in the application.
Where can I find out about the status of my request after submission?
The status of your request can be found on your Welcome / Applicant Account page once you log in to the system.
I received notification that my request was approved, but I have not received a check. When should I expect payment and whom should I contact if I have not received it?
If your request was approved, you will receive payment shortly after the full execution of the Letter of Agreement. Please contact us at
grantsandgiving@bms.com
for a status update on your request.
My organization has not used all the BMS funds provided. What should I do?
Please contact us at
grantsandgiving@bms.com
as soon as possible.
I am getting an error on my page; whom do I contact?
A “Need Support?” link appears at every page of the application. Click on the link and complete a form to describe your technical issue or ask your question. Click on the “Submit Support Request” button, and a reply will be sent to you within 24 hours.
Requests for proposals/education
When will the Requests for Proposals or Requests for Education be posted?
Requests for Proposals (RFP) or Requests for Education (RFE) are posted throughout the year, and address areas of unmet need in various Bristol Myers Squibb therapeutic areas of interest. Please visit the  Corporate Giving  web page on bms.com to locate active RFPs or RFEs.
What are RFP/RFE codes?
RFP/RFE codes are unique identifiers located in the RFP/RFE posting. During the submission of your Letter of Request, you will be asked to select a code from a drop-down menu. Please be sure to select the code that is identical to the code located on the posted RFP/RFE. Selecting the incorrect code or leaving the field blank, may delay the review of your request.
Are RFP/RFE codes required on all Letter of Request submissions?
If you are not submitting a proposal in response to a posted RFP/RFE, please do not select an RFP/RFE code.
What does it mean when an RFP/RFE code is no longer available in the drop-down box in the application?
If the RFP/RFE code is no longer available in the drop down selection in the Letter of Request, the submission window for that particular RFP/RFE is closed and BMS is no longer accepting applications for the RFP/RFE.
Community giving
What does the Community Giving program fund?
We take pride in being a good global citizen. It is at the heart of who we are, what we do and how we do it. To strengthen the communities where we live and work we support a number of initiatives that align with our mission:
Address unmet medical need
in the Community to improve patient care, support and education; and to encourage and support healthy behaviors.
Foster student interest in STEM education, and STEM-related careers. Support focuses on under-served populations.
Helping People in Need  – Support programs that provide marginalized populations with essential resources to help address basic human needs, such as food, medical services and shelter.
The Community Giving Program prefers to support programs that have a direct impact on communities, rather than support of fundraising galas.
Who can apply for community giving?
Our Community Giving Program accepts applications from IRS-qualified 501 (c)(3) non-profit organizations with Missions and programs that are consistent with BMS’ Community Giving areas of interest, and which serve  communities  in the United States where our employees live and work. Tax-exempt organizations, including hospitals, government institutions and schools that serve our local communities are also eligible to apply.
What is the submission process for Community Giving?
We accept requests year-round that are submitted using the Letter of Request through the BMS. For all Community giving applications, we strongly urge you to submit your application at least 8 weeks prior to the required commitment date.  Funding decisions are communicated via email   to recipient organizations from the Corporate Giving Department. The BMS Corporate Giving Department will contact you if additional information is required.
Independent medical education (IME) requests
What items can I submit for medical education funding from Bristol Myers Squibb?
The request must include a realistic and comprehensive budget for all the activities included in the program for which you seek support.
Funding may be issued to support only the costs associated with the development, delivery or evaluation of the educational program, resources or materials.
Funding does not cover:
Travel, lodging or personal expenses for attendees.
Compensation for attendees.
Lavish venues.
Other costs that are neither reasonable nor customary.
Bristol Myers Squibb funding may not be used towards any food and/or beverages offered at an activity with less than 100 attendees. For activities with more than 100 attendees, funding may be used for buffet meals only.
What information will Bristol Myers Squibb request for Closeout Reporting?
We will ask a few simple questions about the program execution and budget, such as “Did the program take place?”, “Did you use the funds as stated in the Letter of Agreement?” etc.
Does my organization have to be an accredited continuing medical education provider to receive funding?
No. Bristol Myers Squibb will consider requests for both accredited and non-accredited continuing medical education. For an accredited program, the requesting organization must be the accrediting as well as the payee organization. For a non-accredited program, the requesting organization must be the payee organization.
My medical education agency employees engage in both independent medical education and promotional services to Bristol Myers Squibb. Can I continue to provide both services to Bristol Myers Squibb?
No. Requesters for independent medical education support from Bristol Myers Squibb must certify that they have not been involved in any activities related to the promotion of any Bristol Myers Squibb products and that they do not have confidential information relevant to Bristol Myers Squibb promotional activities that remain subject to a non-disclosure agreement with Bristol Myers Squibb. In these instances, a firewall certification may need to be obtained from Bristol Myers Squibb.
Furthermore, agencies should be aware of the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) requirement that entities providing independent medical education must be separated, at an entity level, from entities that provide promotion- related services. The ACCME requirement took effect in August 2009.
Where is the program budget form located?
Click here  to access the Program Budget form.
If our IME request is approved, may we use the Bristol Myers Squibb logo to list Bristol Myers Squibb as a sponsor for our program?
The ACCME has modified its requirements to prohibit the inclusion of ACCME-defined commercial interest logos in educational materials and disclosure of commercial support. To acknowledge our support on materials associated with your program, please use the statement: "Supported through an educational grant from Bristol Myers Squibb."
Does the requestor organization receive funding after the signed Letter of Agreement is sent to Bristol Myers Squibb?
Please remember that for IME requests, funding is not guaranteed until the requestor organization has received a copy of the Letter of Agreement signed by both the applicant and Bristol Myers Squibb.
Change of scope requests
What do I do if my organization needs to make changes to an approved request?
Please complete and submit a Program Scope Change Form to
grantsandgiving@bms.com
with Request ID number. The form may be found on
here
For any Independent Medical Education change requests, please fill out the IME Change of Scope form located
here
What are the types of changes that require a Program Scope Change Request Form to be completed?
Changes to request elements requiring review include, but are not limited to, the following:
COVID-19 postponements
Conversion from multi-support to single-support
Changes in secured funding which impact the organization’s ability to deliver the original proposal
Program or activity location
Intended purpose, goals/objectives of proposed agenda or program activities
Change in educational partner or accredited provider
Number or scope of proposed activities
Continuing education certification
Learning objectives (specific to IME)
Outcomes analysis (specific to IME)
Modality (any change in activity type)
Date, time, and venue/location of live activities
Launch date and/or expiration date of enduring activities
Transparency reporting
How do I know if my Program Scope Change Request has been approved or denied?
Final decisions regarding Program Scope Change Requests will be communicated to the requestor by the Bristol Myers Squibb Corporate Giving Department and / or IME Department.
Will any portion of my program budget be subject to the transparency reporting for physicians, healthcare professionals, healthcare organizations, patient or professional advocacy organizations (collectively, “Transparency Obligations”)?
Yes, possibly.  BMS funding to your organization may be subject to transparency reporting. Please reference more information here: Please reference more information by clicking
here .
Request for proposals (RFP)
Click
here
for frequently asked questions on RFPs.
Fellowships
Does BMS support clinical fellowships?
In the United States, BMS does not support clinical fellowship requests from individual universities, healthcare institutions or teaching hospitals. BMS will consider clinical fellowship requests from Professional Societies, Associations and Patient Advocacy Organizations where the clinical fellowship is:
open to a broad pool of candidates
available on a on a competitive basis and
independently selected by the eligible recipient organization without BMS influence

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company