
Welcome to Bristol Myers Squibb Washington
Bristol Myers Squibb’s robust presence in Washington state is transforming the way
difficult-to-treat cancers and other serious diseases are approached.
Learn more about our work in Seattle and Bothell to discover, develop manufacture and commercialize therapies in immuno-oncology and cell therapy.
Explore BMS Washington
Innovation in Washington state >
Community impact >
Career opportunities in Washington state >
Inclusion & diversity >
View our Washington state fact sheet >
2  sites in
Seattle and Bothell
1500+   employees
in Washington state
$765K
delivered in
giving & sponsorship support in
2022 to local organizations & programs
serving communities in Washington state
For more information: visit our
Washington state fact sheet
Driving innovation forward in Washington state
Learn about our broad scope of scientific innovation in Washington
Transforming cells into cancer fighters
Doing R&D differently to transform treatment for serious diseases >
Blueprint for a breakthrough >
'Serial killer' CAR T cells target and destroy tumor cells >
"As I look ahead and think about what’s next, I’m truly excited. A collaborative, cross-functional and research-focused culture can make all the difference as we look to achieve more groundbreaking success for patients globally."
Teri Foy, PhD, senior vice president, Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy Thematic Research Center and Seattle site head
"Computational and machine learning team members are embedded within each of the company’s Thematic Research Centers. This allows for connection and collaboration in real time around ongoing programs and innovations, making the Research Compute Environment an active and fully integrated component of all the programs we’re running."
Doug Bassett, PhD, senior vice president, Informatics and Predictive Sciences, Seattle
"The access I’ve had to high-quality STEM education has provided the great privilege of working in a very novel area of cancer therapeutic development. I dedicate time to STEM outreach to be able to pay that opportunity forward to the next generation of scientists who will solve problems, some of which we cannot yet envision."
Alison Fitch, director, Operations and Strategy, Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy Thematic Research Center and Seattle STEM engagement lead
"A lot of my work centers around the ‘go, no-go’ decision-making for clinical trials. We evaluate an asset and leverage translational data in real-time to share critical insights into the research and development of products. Our data enables clinical study teams to evaluate adjustments to programs."
Justine Dell'Aringa, senior director, Translation Research, Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy Thematic Research Center, Seattle
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
Community impact
Learn about how we are making a difference in communities across Washington state
Empowering communities along the West Coast for a better tomorrow >
Improving STEM education for students >
Encouraging the next generation to pursue STEM educations >
Join us as we transform patient lives through science
Every day, each of us work to improve outcomes of patients fighting serious diseases. Together we’re building a better future for each other and the patients who need us the most.
Join our Bristol Myers Squibb Washington team >
Inclusion & diversity
Give and take: The power of mentorship at Bristol Myers Squibb >
Cell therapy scientist pursues his passion >
Breaking barriers for women in STEM >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company