
Science
The potential of our pipeline
Hematologic cancer research leaders reflect on what’s next
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
December 08, 2021
Our stories
/
Science
The innovative medicines of Bristol Myers Squibb have had a significant impact on hematologic cancers. But there is more to do. The company is driven to understand human biology and the complexities of cancer to advance the next generation of cancer therapies. Bristol Myers Squibb’s promising pipeline in hematologic cancer research explores a multitude of platforms and modalities, setting the company apart and enabling the development of innovative therapies.
Hear from Anne Kerber, M.D., senior vice president, head of Cell Therapy Development; Teri Foy, Ph.D. senior vice president, Research and Early Development Immuno-Oncology and Cell Therapy; and Mark Rolfe, Ph.D., senior vice president, Oncogenesis Thematic Research Center, to learn about the promise of the pipeline and some areas of research the company will share at the 2021 American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting and Exposition.
Q: Why are you excited about Bristol Myers Squibb’s cell therapy pipeline?
Anne Kerber, M.D., senior vice president, head of Cell Therapy Development
Anne:
Bristol Myers Squibb is taking a deliberately broad approach with its research and development in cell therapy, as evidenced by our pipeline. We are looking to tackle industry challenges in order to deliver on the promise of cell therapy for the future. To do this, we are exploring novel ways to make autologous CAR T cell therapies more efficient, scalable and accessible through new manufacturing platforms. We are working to develop allogeneic, or off-the-shelf, CAR T cell therapy, which has the potential to get cell therapies to patients faster. We are also continuing to explore next-generation approaches to CAR T and other cell therapies to build on innovation in the understanding of hematologic malignancies, but also to enable treatment of solid tumors.
Q: What is the significance of the cell therapy data being shared at ASH 2021?
Anne:
Our data at ASH demonstrate the potential of cell therapy to be practice-changing in hematologic cancers with the goal of improving upon standards of care. Cell therapy as a “living product” has the potential to provide an effective, personalized, one-time treatment that really changes how cancer treatment is approached.
Q: How is Bristol Myers Squibb working to disrupt immune suppression?
Teri Foy, Ph.D., senior vice president, Research and Early Development Immuno-Oncology and Cell Therapy
Teri:
We are trying to rescue the immune response by interrupting the pathways that cancer cells exploit to trigger immune suppression.
One such pathway is the CD47/SIRPα axis. This axis keeps typical phagocytic macrophages in check to prevent destruction of normal cells and tissue, inhibiting their phagocytic function by triggering a “don’t eat me” signaling pathway. Cancer cells, however, can overexpress CD47 on their surfaces, allowing them to escape detection by the immune system. By targeting these kinds of pathways, we can work to prevent cancer evasion mechanisms while also providing or activating other signals that help the immune system to recognize and destroy cancer cells, resulting in cancer cell death.
Q: How can exploring targets like SIRPα lead to improved recognition of hematologic cancer cells?
Teri:
Bristol Myers Squibb has a long legacy working in Immuno-Oncology, through which we have gathered important learnings that fuel our research today. Part of that is a deep understanding of the significance of continuing to innovate for patients in order to combat mechanisms of resistance that cancer cells develop. Looking for new target opportunities, new combination strategies, or new follow-on strategies, as well as engaging multiple parts of the immune system are key to advancing therapeutic options for patients that may work where other strategies have failed. At ASH we are looking forward to advancing this goal by presenting data around the CD47/SIRPα axis, which shows the potential of targeting and blocking pathways involved in immune suppression.
Q: Can you describe Bristol Myers Squibb’s work in protein degradation?
Mark Rolfe, Ph.D., senior vice president, Oncogenesis Thematic Research Center
Mark:
Bristol Myers Squibb is a leader in protein degradation, and we have a long history of developing meaningful medicines that target the ubiquitin-proteasome system. By leveraging this system, researchers can harness the body’s natural ability to target and remove unnecessary or harmful disease-causing proteins to maintain equilibrium and keep people healthy.
Protein degradation is a major focus for research and early development. We are studying cereblon modulating agents that act as molecular glues and potentially address a broad range of diseases, alone or in combination with other agents, as well as ligand-directed degraders (LDDs), also called heterobifunctional agents, which are useful for targets that aren’t amenable to the molecular glue approach.
Q: What excites you about the protein degradation data being presented at ASH 2021?
Mark:
We are particularly pleased to be presenting data at ASH involving CELMoD agents that were designed with a very specific mechanism of action in mind. These newer agents are demonstrating promising results with the potential to change the treatment landscape for certain hematologic cancers.
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Blood & Bone Marrow Cancer ,
Cancer Research
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Today & tomorrow: Our enduring commitment in hematology  >
Putting patients first: Transforming clinical lessons into development strategies >
Addressing the burden of anemia in MDS >

September 28, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company