
Our commitment to innovation in cancer care
About us
Our company
Committed to creating a better future for cancer patients
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Over the past several decades, our innovative medicines have improved how cancer is treated, making long-term survival a possibility for more patients. We strive to help more patients across a broad range of solid tumors and blood disorders with our medicines, scientific discovery and investigational research, and are working with partners to address all aspects of patient care, from diagnosis onward.
Until we can offer each person with cancer a better, healthier life, we will keep working.
Our commitment to the cancer community
We are committed to fostering a community of support, creating awareness about the challenges people living with cancer face, and spearheading initiatives to address disparities in cancer research and care.
Cancer care milestone reached in Lesotho >
A cancer patient has received the first chemo infusion ever given within the country of Lesotho, in part, because of the work of the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, an independent charitable organization. Read more about their global impact on access to cancer treatment.
Survivorship Today: What it’s like to live with cancer >
Learn about Survivorship Today, which aims to shed light on the realities of living with cancer today to advance our collective understanding and build better support.
Patient stories: Meet Severyne >
Severyne lives with a chronic cancer and chooses hope over fear. She looks to the positive side of her journey — meeting new people and cherishing the sweet moments in her life.
Patient stories: Meet Lorena >
Lorena lives with lung cancer and was told she only had six months to live. Hear about her journey and her search for healing.
Accelerating and expanding health equity and diversity efforts >
See how we’re working to address health disparities to serve more patients with serious disease.
Leadership perspectives
Leadership perspectives on complex topics that affect our science, our medicine and our patients.
Untangling the complexity of cancer: Opportunities to accelerate the next wave of innovation for patients >
Nick Botwood, senior vice president of Oncology Medical, and Ridwaan Jhetam, senior vice president of Hematology Medical, discuss how Bristol Myers Squibb has built a diverse portfolio to address the unique needs of patients.
Doing R&D “differently” to transform treatment for serious diseases >
Teri Foy, PhD, senior vice president, Research and Early Development Immuno-Oncology and Cell Therapy, shares how we strive to help patients living with complex diseases by drawing on our experience and learnings to pursue new standards of care across therapeutic areas.
The move to treat early: Seeking to transform the treatment of cancer in earlier stages of disease >
Jonathan Cheng, MD, senior vice president, Head of Oncology Development, details how the use of immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer may help prevent recurrence and improve outcomes for patients.
Addressing the burden of anemia in MDS >
Noah Berkowitz, MD, PhD, senior vice president, Hematology Development and Global Drug Development, discusses the importance of progress that improves how people live with blood disorders.
My front row seat to the revolution of immune checkpoint inhibitors >
Sabine Maier, MD, Head of Oncology and Clinical Development, shares her perspective on witnessing the development of checkpoint inhibitors and their impact on patient care.
Putting patients first: Transforming clinical lessons into development strategies >
Anne Kerber, senior vice president, head of Cell Therapy Development, reflects on her desire to deliver life-changing treatments to patients and how this led her from the clinic to the world of drug discovery and development.
Using a multimodal toolbox to advance the next generation of cancer treatment >
Charlie Garnett-Benson, senior scientific director of Translational Medicine, shares how forward-thinking science helps fuel the next wave of innovation in cancer drug discovery.
Advancing cancer care
Every day we strive to push the boundaries and explore new frontiers in cancer treatment.
Reflecting on research in genitourinary cancers >
Dana Walker, MD, MSCE, vice president and Genitourinary (GU) Cancers Development Lead, sheds light on the importance of ongoing GU cancer research, the unmet needs for patients with GU tumors and where we go from here to offer hope to even more people impacted by cancer.
The evolution of lung cancer research >
Abderrahim Oukessou, MD, our vice president and Thoracic Cancers Development Lead, sat down with Adam Schoenfeld, MD, medical oncologist, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center to discuss how the landscape of lung cancer research has transformed in recent years.
Our bold vision for multiple myeloma >
Rod Humerickhouse, MD, PhD, vice president of Hematology Development, Multiple Myeloma, and Rosanna Ricafort, MD, vice president, head of Cellular Therapy Clinical Development, share more about our commitment to the multiple myeloma community and continued progress in advancing treatment for every patient living with this disease.
Today’s cell therapy insights shaping tomorrow >
We have only scratched the surface of cell therapy’s potential impact for patients with cancer. Read to discover more about ongoing advancement in this field.
Exploring multiple paths to advance BCMA-targeted therapies >
Learn more about how we are developing therapies targeting BCMA by leveraging a number of modalities including cell therapies, antibody-drug conjugates and immune cell engagers.
Catching a tumor: Highlighting Bristol Myers Squibb’s commitment to facing the challenge of cancer resistance >
Read about how we’re discovering new methods for overcoming cancer drug resistance.
Crystallizing exponential possibilities in protein degradation >
Hear from researchers harnessing cell’s own machinery to degrade several new classes of proteins that were previously considered “undruggable.”
Scientific and disease-specific resources
View and download infographic resources to learn about a variety of solid and hematologic cancers and new cutting-edge treatment approaches.
Disease-state infographics on different cancers >
Understanding protein degradation >
LAG-3 fact sheet >
Immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer fact sheet >
Immune cell engagers in cancer therapy >
Clinical trials and diversity fact sheet >
Cell therapy resources >
Explore our comprehensive approach to cancer research >
Exploring the tumor micro-environment >
Using cryogenic electron microscopy to advance protein degradation research >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company