
Global Inclusion & Diversity stories
Going the extra mile for BMS and our patients by taking care of myself and family first
Read Iara Silva’s story, a BMS employee
August 20, 2022
About us
/
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
/
Global Inclusion & Diversity stories
Iara Silva
I joined BMS as a Training Manager in 2014. I’m not exaggerating when I say I've been living the best years of my career here. I also worked as a Marketing Manager and was recently promoted to New Product Planning Manager after returning from maternity leave. I’ve had two kids since joining BMS. I can assure you that during both pregnancies, I was well taken care of. My office sent me healthy meals, respected my medical appointments, and even made sure I had the right chair to support my posture. My story is an important example of how someone can have a flexible career path –starting in academic science and shifting to the commercial area, then to the medical area and then to marketing. These experiences gave me a strong foundation to get to the position I occupy now.
“
That is why I tell people "Do not be afraid of changes. Take chances, invest in yourself and seek your professional and personal happiness."
Iara Silva, New Product Planning Manager
”
Being at BMS makes me complete because I can dedicate myself to what is most important for me and my family. That gives me even more strength to go the extra mile for the company and patients. I also appreciate feeling supported as a mother and valued by my directors.
Acknowledgments: Gaetano Crupi, GM -Aldemir Cruz, S&O Director –Christina Matteucci,
Oncology Director –Valeria Ribeiro, Marketing Associate Director –Jennifer Wendling HR Director.
For more information on PBRGs, click  here .
Global Inclusion and Diversity
Demonstrating our allyship and fostering belonging to LGBTQ colleagues in Taiwan >
Holding colleagues accountable to mitigate unconscious bias >
Celebrating the diverse teams working across BMS Middle East and Africa >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company