
Chris Boerner, Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer - Bristol Myers Squibb
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Chris Boerner, PhD
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Chris Boerner, PhD
Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Boerner is board chair and chief executive officer at Bristol Myers Squibb. Prior to assuming his current role, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer and chief executive officer designate from April to November 2023.
Chris previously served as executive vice president, chief commercialization officer since August 2018, where he led the worldwide Commercial and Medical organizations and was responsible for driving growth across the company’s key franchises. Prior to that role, Chris was head of international markets at Bristol Myers Squibb, accountable for international commercial activities. Before that, he was head of U.S. commercial markets, responsible for U.S. sales and marketing, government affairs and market access. He joined the company in February 2015.
"We work every day to make sure we're delivering medicines for patients. With the pace of scientific innovation and the best workforce in the industry, my confidence in our future is stronger than ever,” he says.
From 2010 to 2015, Chris held leadership roles of increasing responsibility at Seattle Genetics, Inc. From 2002 to 2010, he served in marketing leadership roles at Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, focused on strategy, development and commercialization across multiple oncology products and immunology. Earlier in his career, Chris worked for McKinsey & Company, serving global pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients.
Chris received his PhD and MA in business administration from the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, and holds a BA in economics and history from Washington University in St. Louis.
Updated: April 2024
NEXT
David Elkins >

May 02, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company