
News & Perspectives
Continuing our culture of putting patients first
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
September 19, 2022
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Since our founding over 160 years ago, patients have been at the center of everything we do at Bristol Myers Squibb, and when I took on the role of CEO in May 2015, I remember wanting to ensure that we continued that culture of putting patients first. Our inaugural Global Patient Week that year is one example of how we come together for a shared cause – it’s a unique part of our culture, and one that I look forward to participating in every year.
Global Patient Week has grown with our company; this is our eighth consecutive year, and it continues to be an annual reminder of the reason we work each day to develop new therapies and advance science in ways never seen before.
But this year… feels particularly significant.
Today, for the first time in three years, we celebrated Global Patient Week in-person again at our sites around the world.
Transforming lives is a bold aspiration, one our colleagues lean into in ways that consistently amaze me.
The past three years have challenged each of us tremendously, and through it all, it’s been incredible to see how far this team of more than 32,000 is willing to go to continue pushing the boundaries of how we can impact lives.
Through the past two years alone — while facing countless headwinds — we have been able to bring nine new therapies and medicines to market, evolving our portfolio to meet those in need in innovative ways.
We are working faster than ever to bring new solutions to market and patients everywhere are counting on it and on us to deliver.
At our kickoff event for Global Patient Week today, we heard directly from some of these patients on the role our people and medicines have had in supporting them through some of the most difficult moments of their lives, and we will not stop until everyone, everywhere can feel the same hope they do.
Patients like Severyne in France, who shared her story of perseverance as she fights a life-threatening blood cancer. Or Evris in Sweden, who faced a stigmatizing disease head on, and found a health solution that enabled him to dedicate his life to fighting that very stigma.
These stories of hope, and in the end, triumph, is what makes our efforts worth it. They are also why we are committed to diversifying our clinical trials with the
populations that need it most . They’re why more than 350 of our global colleagues cycle more than 6,000 miles to
raise millions to combat cancer .
Each day this week will provide myself and our employees a new patient story, a new reason why, and that’s exactly what makes Global Patient Week so important for Bristol Myers Squibb. It shows us who we are working for every single day of the year.
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Leadership Perspectives
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Searching the globe for the next big deal for patients  >
Faster, higher, stronger >
Keep the wheels turning >

August 25, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company