
Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2022
Earnings Highlights
Fourth quarter and full-year results reflect robust growth of the in-line and new product portfolios, driven by strong commercial execution and continued progress of the company's pipeline.
Investors
Financial reporting
Quarterly results
Q4 2022 Earnings Highlights
Full-Year Highlights
TOTAL NET SALES
$ 46.2 B
GAAP EPS 1
$ 2 .95
Non-GAAP EPS 1,2
$ 7.70
Fourth Quarter Highlights
TOTAL NET SALES
$ 11.4 B
GAAP EPS
$ 0 .95 1
Non-GAAP EPS
$ 1 .82
1,2
2023 Guidance 3
TOTAL NET SALES
Increase approx.
2%
GAAP EPS
$ 4.03  -
$ 4.33 4
Non-GAAP EPS 2
$ 7.95  -  $ 8.25 4
“
2022 was a successful year for our company, one of significant clinical and regulatory achievements that broadened our product portfolio and advanced our pipeline. We are especially proud to have launched three first-in-class medicines that address serious unmet medical needs for patients. Our financial strength, talented workforce and proven ability to execute will enable us to continue to progress our pipeline and invest in future sources of innovation. With a younger and more diversified portfolio, promising mid-to-late stage registrational assets and a deep early-stage pipeline, I am confident that the company is well positioned for multiple waves of innovation that will support long-term growth.
”
- Giovanni Caforio, M.D.
Chairman of the Board
Delivering Sustained Growth and Innovation
Oncology
Hematology
Immunology/Fibrosis
Cardiovascular
In-Line Products performance:
Full Year
$33.3B
YoY % Increase of 7%.
Excluding Foreign Exchange 4 ,
YoY % Increase of 11%.
Fourth Quarter
$8.3B
YoY % Increase of 4%.
Excluding Foreign Exchange 4 ,
YoY % Increase of 9%.
New Product Portfolio 5
performance
Full Year
$2.0B
YoY % Increase of 87%.
Excluding Foreign Exchange 4 ,
YoY % Increase of 92%.
Fourth Quarter
$645M
YoY % Increase of 83%.
Excluding Foreign Exchange 4 ,
YoY % Increase of 87%.
Key Regulatory and Clinical Milestones
Hematology
Reblozyl ® : Phase 3 COMMANDS trial met its primary endpoint in 1L TD MDS associated anemia.
Breyanzi ® : Approved by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for second-line treatment of relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma
Reblozyl:  CHMP of the EMA has recommended approval of
Reblozyl
as a treatment for adult patients with anemia associated with non transfusion-dependent beta thalassemia.*
Breyanzi:  Results from the Phase 2 portion of the TRANSCEND CLL 004 multicenter study showed that the study met the primary endpoint of complete response rate compared to historical control in adults with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma.*
Immunology
Sotyktu ™ : CHMP of the EMA has recommended approval of
Sotyktu
for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis.*
Zeposia ® : Phase 3 DAYBREAK open-label extension study retrospective analyses showed that most participants receiving
Zeposia
mounted serologic response following COVID-19 vaccination.
*Announced in January 2023.
Strong Financial Foundation
BMS maintains a consistent, balanced approach to capital allocation, focused on leveraging strong cash flow generation to invest in internal and external innovation, reducing debt and returning cash to shareholders.
$ 9.3 B
Cash and Marketable Securities
(as of Dec. 31, 2022)
$ 13.1 B
Full-Year Cash Flow from Operating Activities
$
12.6
†
B
Full-Year Returned Cash to Shareholders
Environmental, Social and Governance Highlights
As a leading biopharma company, we understand our responsibility extends well beyond the discovery, development, and delivery of innovative medicines. Our evolving Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategy builds on a legacy of comprehensive and global sustainability efforts. To learn more about our priorities and goals, please visit our latest  ESG report .
Environment
Key priorities
Embracing environmental stewardship
Commitments
2024  Science-based emissions reduction targets established
2030  100% renewable electricity
2040  Net neutral GHG
100% EV fleet
100% equitable water use
Zero waste to landfill
Social
Key priorities
Promoting product quality & safety
Cultivating diversity, equity & inclusion
Ensuring health equity, patient access & innovation
Commitments §
2021  ≥ 25% new clinical trial sites in diverse metro areas
2022  Gender parity at executive level.
2X representation for Black/African
American & Hispanic/Latino executives
2025
$1B spend with diverse suppliers
Governance
Key priorities
Maintaining highest ethics, integrity & compliance
Upholding Board oversight & accountability
Commitments
Experienced & diverse Board
Board oversight of strategy & key enterprise risks
64% female & ethnically diverse directors
Shareholder rights
Regular shareholder engagement
Proxy access
Special meeting right (15%)
1  GAAP and non-GAAP EPS include the net impact of Acquired IPRD charges and licensing income of ($0.01) per share in the fourth quarter and ($0.24) per share for the full year 2022. Acquired IPRD refers to certain in-process research and development (“Acquired IPRD”) charges resulting from upfront or contingent milestone payments in connection with asset acquisitions or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights.
2
Non-GAAP EPS is not calculated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). This Non-GAAP measure excludes certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found on our website at bms.com. See, “Quarterly package of financial information” available on bms.com/investors for additional information on the limitations of non-GAAP financial measures and the list of specified items excluded from Non-GAAP EPS.
3  The 2023 financial guidance excludes the impact of any potential future strategic acquisitions and divestitures, any specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified and the impact of any future Acquired IPRD charges.
4  We calculate foreign exchange impacts by converting our current-period local currency financial results using the prior period average currency rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current-period results. Ex-FX financial measures are not accounted for according to GAAP because they remove the effects of currency movements from GAAP results.
5  New Product Portfolio includes Reblozyl® (luspatercept-aamt), Inrebic® (fedratinib), Onureg® (azacitidine tablets), Zeposia® (ozanimod), Breyanzi® (lisocabtagene maraleucel), Abecma® (idecabtagene vicleucel), Opdualag TM
(relatlimab plus nivolumab fixed-dose combination),Camzyos® (mavacamten) and Sotyktu TM
(deucravacitinib).
Materials on this infographic may contain information about the company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed.
Forward-looking statements contained in this document should be evaluated together with the many risks and uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary statement and risk factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and except as otherwise required by applicable law, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise.
‡  Reblozyl is being developed and commercialized through a global collaboration with Merck following Merck’s acquisition of Acceleron Pharma, Inc. in November 2021.
†
Includes $4.6 billion for dividends paid and $8.0 billion for common stock repurchases.
§
Final reporting for the 2022 Commitments will be completed during the first quarter of 2023.
© 2023 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. All Rights Reserved.

October 26, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company