
Counterfeit drugs
About us
Responsibility
Position on key issues
Counterfeit drugs
Global position statement on counterfeit medicines
Key takeaway messages
Counterfeit medicines are produced and sold with the intent to deceptively represent their origin, effectiveness or authenticity — a serious global health issue. Counterfeit healthcare products place people at risk of adverse events, which include serious health problems and potentially death.
At BMS, we aim to protect those who use our products by maintaining our products’ integrity, and we believe the trade in counterfeit healthcare products should be eliminated. BMS remains highly committed to preserving product integrity and patient safety as part of our mission to help patients prevail over serious diseases. Counterfeit drugs, theft and diversion represent serious threats to patients and can interfere with our ability to provide customers with effective and high-quality products.
BMS believes that only a multi-faceted and multi-stakeholder approach can effectively combat counterfeit and falsified medicines and protect patients. This includes governments passing laws, law enforcement agencies applying them, all actors in the supply chain working hard to ensure its integrity, consumers sourcing medicines from the approved channels and the public generally being aware of the risks.
BMS has a role to play in ensuring the integrity of its supply chain and providing effective mitigation against its being penetrated by falsified medicines. To that end, BMS employs a number of tools such as unique packaging features and serialization, as well as proactive monitoring and the professional investigation of incidents. All of these efforts are managed in a way that supports and exchanges information with regulatory agencies, law enforcement and the public. Moreover, these efforts are constantly being reviewed and improved to take advantage of innovative practices and to address the increasing complexity of the threat.
While there is no single solution to this issue, we have efforts in place to help ensure the quality and integrity of our products within the supply chain and further patient safety:
An integrated team that addresses counterfeiting, product tampering, theft and diversion issues
Security technologies to make our packaging and products less vulnerable to counterfeiting and to secure their movement within the supply chain
Participation in industry coalitions and organizations addressing this issue
Collaboration with supply chain vendors and law enforcement agencies on product security matters
U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Counterfeit Medicines
Partnership for Safe Medicines
Learn About Counterfeit Drugs Around the Globe
The Pharmaceutical Security Institute  (Not supported in Internet Explorer)
Buying Prescription Medicine Online: A Consumer Safety Guide
Drug Supply Chain Integrity
Cargo Theft
Counterfeit Drugs and Travel
What is a counterfeit medicine?
The U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) defines counterfeit medicine as fake medicine. It may be contaminated or contain the wrong or no active ingredient. They could have the right active ingredient but at the wrong dose. Counterfeit drugs are illegal and may be harmful to your health.
Why can counterfeit products be dangerous?
Counterfeit medicines are not authentically approved products. For this reason, consuming them may be dangerous because they may contain little to no active ingredient (the medicine that makes the drug work) and may not deliver the therapeutic benefit that the patient needs. On the other hand, counterfeit products may contain too much active ingredient or other unapproved ingredients, which could also be dangerous to the patient’s health.
Furthermore, counterfeit products may contain harmful ingredients and may be contaminated because they are made in substandard, unregulated, and/or unsanitary environments with no concern for quality or safety.
How do I know if I have a counterfeit medicine?
Consumers may not know that they have received a counterfeit medicine because counterfeiters attempt to mimic authentic product. For this reason, it is important to purchase your products from a reputable licensed source. A reputable licensed source from whom you are obtaining your product is the best way to ensure the safety of your product.
If you suspect that you may have received a counterfeit medicine, contact the source from which you obtained the product, your healthcare professional or Bristol Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072.
What can I do to help protect myself from counterfeit medicines?
Know your product, and evaluate your product and packaging carefully. Check the color, texture, taste, shape and packaging each time you get your prescription filled.
Make sure that you understand the source from which you obtained your medicine, such as a licensed pharmacist or pharmacy.
Ask for your medicine in the product manufacturer’s original packaging if possible.
If you suspect that you may have received a counterfeit medicine, contact the source from which you obtained the product, your healthcare professional, or Bristol Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072.
How can I best protect myself when filling my prescription online?
See the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s
Buying Prescription Medicine Online: A Consumer Safety Guide
for their guidance on safe buying practices.
Where can I learn about Supply Chain Security?
See the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s information on
Drug Integrity and Supply Chain Security.
Where can I learn about product theft or diversion?
See the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s information on
Cargo Thefts.
Download the counterfeit drugs PDF

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company