
Privacy statement - general fasttrack
Privacy statement for independent research and early patient access
Researchers
Independent research
Privacy statement - general fasttrack
Before continuing to the Login or to Create User ID, please read the following Privacy Statement for Independent Research and Early Patient Access.  If you choose not to provide your personal information, please do not proceed.
In order to manage your requests for Investigator Sponsored Research (ISR), Early Patient Access (EPA) and Data Sharing requests, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, 430 E. 29 Street, 14 Floor, New York City, USA (hereinafter referred as “Bristol-Myers Squibb”), needs to collect certain information: general profile information (education, publications, professional experience, contact information, etc.) that is contained in your CV, affiliations and addresses (“Personal Information”); and specifics regarding the concept request. Mandatory information is noted by an asterisk.
Bristol-Myers Squibb may share your Personal Information with other Bristol-Myers Squibb group entities and its service providers (Clinigen Group Limited and Idis Limited for EPA only) involved in the review, approval and setup of your requests, which may be established in countries other than your own, and, in the case of Data Sharing requests, with Duke Clinical Research Institute, our independent review committee. For Independent Research, data may be shared (as appropriate) with our collaborators for that disease area.
Bristol-Myers Squibb has executed European Standard Contractual Clauses or selected EU-US Privacy Shield certified vendors to ensure that Personal Information from the European Economic Area (EEA) is adequately protected while being processed out of this region.
We will store your data for up to ten (10 years), or for a longer period if required by law, at Bristol-Myers Squibb vendor’s facilities in Ashburn, VA, USA.
You may at any time ask for access to or a copy of your Personal Information that we have collected for this purpose, or request information about or supplement your Personal Information stored with us, and request that it be corrected, deleted, or blocked or ceased, subject to local regulatory requirements. For this purpose please contact us at:
Bristol-Myers Squibb
P.O. Box 640
Palatine, IL 60078-0640
Telephone: 800-332-2056
You may choose not to provide your Personal Information to us; however, if you do so, you will not be able to participate in the ISR, EPA and/or Data Sharing programs.  If you do not agree to (1) the collection, processing and international transfer of your Personal Information and (2) Bristol-Myers Squibb sharing your Personal Information with the above mentioned Bristol-Myers Squibb group entities and other third parties for the purposes described above,
PLEASE DO NOT PROCEED.
Continue to login or create user ID >

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company