
Combating cancer
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Our focus area
Combating cancer
Nearly 10 million people around the world die from cancer each year, and as many as 70 percent are in low-and-middle-income countries. Cancer is a serious global issue and our programs work to improve the health outcomes and quality of life for the disproportionately affected. The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation supports community-based programs that promote cancer awareness, screening, care and support among high-risk populations in the United States, nine countries in Africa, Brazil and China.
Global cancer disparities
In developed countries, 80% of children with cancer and blood disorders go into remission. Conversely, in southern and east Africa, the opposite is true: 80% of pediatric cancer and hematology patients do not survive.
In Brazil, 80% of lung cancer patients are diagnosed at late stages due to lack of available care.
In China, common cancers are diagnosed at later stages than in the U.S., in particular for men and boys, and people living in rural areas.
In the U.S., African American men are two times more likely to die from prostate cancer than white men.
Greenwood Leflore Hospital
Greenwood Leflore Hospital in Mississippi developed a model to detect and diagnose cancer much earlier. Can their work in this rural community impact other underserved populations around the world?
Our impact
We are working to fund and support innovative models of community-based care that are replicable and scalable so that the achievements of our grantees can benefit patients everywhere.
Global HOPE
Global HOPE has now treated more than 10,000 children. Can the elements of this program's success in Sub-Saharan Africa apply to children in underserved communities in developed countries?
Learn more >
Global cancer disparities grantees
American Cancer Society (ACS)
American Lung Association
Avera McKennan
Institute for Medical Research at the Durham VA
Jefferson Health
Levine Cancer Institute
The Go2Lung Foundation
LUNGevity
Maine Medical Center
The McGuire Research Institute
Carl T. Hayden Medical Research Foundation
Houston VA Research and Education Foundation
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and Vista Expertise Network
Tufts University
University of Kentucky, the University of Louisville and the Lung Cancer Alliance
University of Louisville
University of South Carolina College of Nursing
Greenwood Leflore Hospital
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
International Myeloma Foundation
Case Western Reserve University
National Minority Quality Forum
Georgia Cancer Center at Augusta University
H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center
Institute for Medical Research
Johns Hopkins Center for American Indian Health
Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes)
Roswell Park Alliance Foundation
University of California Davis & Health and Life Organization
University of California Irvine Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center
University of California San Francisco
University of Hawai’i John A. Burns School of Family Medicine
University of Illinois Cancer Center
Yale Cancer Center
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Department of Health / Addington Regional Hospital
University Research Co. / Eswatini Ministry of Health
Catholic University of Health and Allied Sciences (Cuhas) / Bugando Medical Centre
Mathiwos Wondu Ye Ethiopia Cancer Society
National University of Lesotho, Faculty of Health Sciences
Wits Health Consortium / Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital
Cancer Care Workers / Kimberley Hospital Complex
Wits Health Consortium / Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital
TB HIV Care
Eswatini Breast and Cervical Cancer Network
Baylor Children’s Center of Excellence
Forum for African Women’s Education Eswatini
Catholic Medical Mission Board Inc. - Combatting Cervical Cancer in Kenya
Texas Children’s Hospital-Cancer And Hematology Center (TXCH) – Global Hope
Groupe Franco Africain D’oncologie Pediatrique (GFAOP)
Academic Model Providing Access To Healthcare / MOI Teaching and Referral Hospital
Isibani Development Partners (IDP)
International Cancer Institute (ICI), Kenya
New Dimension Consulting, Zimbabwe
Siso Foundation
Rob Ferreira Tertiary Hospital-Mpumalanga Oncology Unit / Department of Health
Beijing Association of Oncology – National Cancer Centre
Beijing iGandan Foundation
China Foundation for Hepatitis Prevention and Control (CFHPC)
Shanghai Cancer Recovery Club (SCRC)
Fundação Pio XII / Hospital de Amor
Senai Cimatec, in partnership with SDS Healthline
City Cancer Foundation, in partnership with Conceiҫão Hospital Group
Fundação Pio XII – Barretos Cancer Hospital
Instituto Oncoguia
Irmandade Santa Casa de Porto Alegre
Lado a Lado pela Vida Institute
Read more [+]
Read less [-]

January 03, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company