
Featured Researcher: Charlotte Chapman – Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - Charlotte Chapman
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Charlotte Chapman
Head, Regional Clinical Operations Business Management, Global Development Operations
London, UK
Biography
Charlotte Chapman serves as the head of Regional Clinical Operations Business Management in the company’s Global Development Operations organization. In this role, Charlotte leads a hands-on group that oversees and helps guide the execution of clinical trials, working with investigators, study coordinators and other hospital staff engaged in these studies worldwide.
Charlotte and her colleagues manage the many logistical and operational details of clinical trials, such as setting up trials with ethics approvals and contracts, training site staff on trial requirements and supporting the recruitment of appropriate patient populations, to name a few. While the trials are ongoing, Charlotte and her team also work to ensure study sites’ data quality control and adherence to trial protocols.
“For me, the most impactful part of my work is enabling the evaluation of potential treatments for patients, where currently available options don’t fully address unmet need,” she said. “It’s all part of the process to ensure that we’re doing everything we can for patients in need.”
Charlotte joined Bristol Myers Squibb in 2005 as a clinical site manager. Since then, she has continued to expand her role, overseeing the Northern European Clinical Operations Cluster until recently stepping into her new position as head of Regional Clinical Operation Business Management. Prior to joining Bristol Myers Squibb, Charlotte held positions at pharmaceutical companies including SmithKline Beecham, now part of GSK, and Novartis.
Interests and Expertise
For Charlotte, it was earning a science degree that led her to pursue a career in the pharmaceutical industry. It all fell into place at once for Charlotte, and soon she found herself in a career that she deems “the perfect fit.”
“It is incredibly rewarding to have a career where every day you can relate your work to a genuine need,” she said. “Working in a dynamic industry where I am accountable drives me to continuously develop because the better I can be, the more positive an impact I can have on others.”
When Charlotte isn’t working to organize and implement clinical trials, she can often be found spending time with her family or staying active through one of her favorite sports – field hockey.

May 02, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company