
Pamela Fisher - Bristol Myers Squib
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Pamela Fisher
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Pamela Fisher
Vice President, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
As vice president and chief diversity and inclusion officer, Pamela Fisher drives our global diversity and inclusion (GD&I) business strategy and operating plans, connects our GD&I commitments to business performance, innovation and patient outcomes, and continues to strengthen and shape our diverse and inclusive culture. She provides leadership to our Global Diversity Inclusion Council and People and Business Resource Groups.
In addition to serving as a member of the leadership team, Pam reports to our chief human resources officer, Ann Powell.
“At BMS, we understand the value and impact of having a workforce that reflects the patients and communities we serve, and a culture of inclusion and belonging where everyone’s unique perspective collectively drives greater innovation and healthcare solutions,” Pamela says. “We remain committed to advancing our D&I strategy, addressing the evolving needs of patients and driving more equitable and sustainable health outcomes around the world.”
Pam joins the company with more than 20 years of global corporate experience in diversity and inclusion management, philanthropy, communications and government relations. In her most recent position at Johnson & Johnson, from 2017 until joining Bristol Myers Squibb, she served as head of diversity, equity & inclusion global strategy partnerships and was on the leadership team that launched an evidence-based D&I strategy that reached diverse and multicultural patients and consumers, and increased workforce diversity and sentiment on inclusion. Prior to that, she was with Quest Diagnostics from 2015 to 2017 and served as president of The Quest Foundation and executive director of global inclusion and corporate social impact. She also led News Corp's diversity and inclusion strategy and has held leadership positions at News Corp and 20th Century Fox Entertainment.
Pam earned her undergraduate degree in communications from George Mason University.
Updated: November 2021
PREVIOUS
< David Elkins
NEXT
Cari Gallman >

January 05, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company