
Miranda Broz - Bristol Myers Squibb Featured Researcher
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - Miranda Broz
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Miranda Broz, PhD
Scientific Director, Discovery Myeloid Biology,  Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy
Redwood City, CA
Biography
Miranda Broz, PhD, serves as a scientific director of Discovery Myeloid Biology,  Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy at Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D site in Redwood City, California. In this role, Miranda and her team are responsible for exploring parts of the tumor microenvironment (TME) in order to better uncover how a tumor functions, with the hope of eventually turning these findings into novel treatment options that will benefit patients with difficult-to-treat cancers.
The TME encompasses the network of cells and structure surrounding a tumor, including a number of different cell types, such as regulatory T cells, stromal cells and myeloid antigen presenting cells. Miranda and her team specifically work to better understand how they can target myeloid cells – one of the most abundant cell types found within the TME, which play a crucial role in tumor growth and spread – with hopes to progress research that may enhance a patient’s own immune response against the tumor cells.
“Through our research, we evaluate different populations of myeloid cells to better explore their interactions across tumor types and patient populations,” she said. “That way, we can learn how these different subsets work, and, how we as researchers can better target them therapeutically.”
Prior to joining Bristol Myers Squibb, Miranda spent time at Pionyr Immunotherapeutics, now part of Ikena Oncology. Miranda earned her bachelor’s degree in microbiology at the University of California Berkeley and went on to earn a PhD in immunology at the University of California San Francisco.
Interests and Expertise
Improving the lives of others has been a personal passion for Miranda since she was young. Outside of work, Miranda is involved in the El Salvador Projects – an organization created by her family that works to fund the establishment of schools in underprivileged parts of El Salvador.
“The importance of education was instilled in me at a young age,” she said. “I want to continue to do my part to help as much as a I can. It’s always been something incredibly meaningful to me.”
When Miranda isn’t researching ways to unlock the mysteries of the tumor microenvironment, or working on the El Salvador Projects, she enjoys baking and kickboxing.

February 27, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company