
EHS management system integration
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Governance
EHS management system
EHS management system integration
At Bristol Myers Squibb, our e nvironment, health and safety management system
responds to evolving scientific, technical and public policy information, and is integrated into processes across the company. Examples include these key components:
Capital engineering project review
Capital engineering projects for new processes, products and facilities that may affect the environment or employee health and safety must be reviewed and endorsed by the facility EHS coordinator. The review must address the following, where applicable:
Permitted environmental releases
Sudden environmental releases (such as spills and explosions)
Hazardous and nonhazardous waste generation, storage and disposal
Disposal of raw materials, intermediates and final products
Health and safety risks to employees
Energy consumption
Additionally, all requests for projects involving new products or packaging must include an evaluation of impacts on the environment.
Customer communications
The vast majority of Bristol Myers Squibb products relate to healthcare, the labeling of which is strictly regulated by various governments to ensure safe use. We provide consumers, commercial customers and distributors with information regarding the safe use, transportation, storage and disposal of all of our products. We strive to follow the highest standards of labeling and product safety information for our healthcare products. The company also has systems for tracking consumer comments and adverse reactions, using this information to modify product formulations, labeling and safety data sheets, as appropriate.
Bristol Myers Squibb employees interact with healthcare professionals about products, medical research and patient healthcare on a daily basis, and we are committed to upholding the highest ethical standards.
Our drug promotion is guided by
our commitment
and guidelines set forth by organizations, including:
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
Office of Inspector General
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA)
Rules prohibiting the distribution of non-educational items, such as pens and mugs
Clarification of provisions regarding educational materials
Guidelines for providing meals to healthcare professionals.
Risk and hazard identification and assessment
Emergency response, reporting and cleanup plans
Employee training
EHS policy
Acquisition due diligence
Capital appropriation request review process
Product life cycle reviews
Architectural, mechanical and environmental impact control
Product selection
Roofing and painting guidelines
Source reduction
Recyclability
Refillability
Reusability
Safe disposal
PhRMA strengthened its “Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.” in a 2009 update. A few of the key modifications to the code included:
Rules prohibiting the distribution of non-educational items, such as pens and mugs
Clarification of provisions regarding educational materials
Guidelines for providing meals to healthcare professionals
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we fully endorse and abide by these recommendations.
Emergency preparedness guideline
All facilities must have comprehensive emergency preparedness programs in place that include:
Facilities develop plans in cooperation with local emergency response agencies, including police, fire and public health departments. Emergency preparedness drills are conducted no less than once per year, and at times involve local emergency response entities. For more information about our facilities, refer to
our facility section .
Energy management program
We have established the position of director, Global Energy Services, with global reach and responsibility. We maintain and update our energy management program based on the characteristics of specific operational situations. The Corporate Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability Department reviews this program annually.
The program’s objectives are supported by a number of other company initiatives that require consideration of energy issues, including:
EHS policy
Acquisition due diligence
Capital appropriation request review process
Product life cycle reviews
As a result, our facilities are making greater use of state-of-the-art, energy-efficient technologies. For more information about our energy management programs see the
environmental performance
section of this website.
Engineering standards
Our engineering design standards and supporting specifications allow our engineering community to design and implement engineering projects that are mindful of sustainable development and closely aligned with our Sustainability 2020 Goals. The standards are based upon the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) guidelines developed by the U.S. Green Building Council.
Information management systems
Computer-based information management systems enable our company to maximize the effectiveness, productivity and value of our EHS program. Information management systems help us pursue our goals of sustainable development and sustainable competitive advantage. Numerous programs and projects have been implemented to reduce our information technology carbon footprint and minimize waste.
Packaging
The Environmental Guidelines for Package Development direct our businesses to minimize the environmental impact of packaging by considering: source reduction, recyclability, refillability, reusability and safe disposal.
As a best practice, our packaging engineers consider the principles of sustainability during package design. In addition, we are collaborating with select suppliers on opportunities to reduce waste and improve the environmental impact of our packaging.
Pollution prevention
Our local facilities have years of experience demonstrating that pollution prevention makes good business sense. Pollution prevention reduces the environmental footprint of a facility and promotes economic growth through cost savings and productivity improvements.
Product life cycle reviews
We integrate product life cycle concepts into the new product development process. Our approach to eco-efficiency includes designing products that meet the highest standards of excellence with regard to quality, cost and EHS performance. By minimizing packaging, using recycled and recyclable materials and utilizing green chemistry principles to reduce the toxicity of our raw materials, we are decreasing the environmental impact of our products, all the way through to the consumer. Utilizing
green chemistry
principles also enhances health and safety considerations associated with the production of our products.
Sustainability goals
Bristol Myers Squibb has established a series of comprehensive sustainability goals to address priorities for driving progress. These goals raise awareness and engagement on issues of importance to the company and stakeholders on economic, social and environmental issues. We are currently pursuing our
Sustainability 2020 Goals . These goals build on the progress driven by our
Sustainability 2015 Goals
and
Sustainability 2010 Goals . We will track performance against them worldwide and report both positive and negative progress to the public.
Waste minimization
Bristol Myers Squibb develops and maintains waste minimization programs for our facilities. Waste minimization programs should cover all categories of waste generated at each location. Goals for this program are established and reports on progress provided to management no less than once per year. Our corporate audit group reviews performance against these objectives. For more information about our waste minimization performance see the
environmental performance
section of this website.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company