
Compound and technology requests
Researchers
Independent research
Compound and technology requests
For researchers interested in obtaining compounds for laboratory and/or animal research.
How to apply:
Click below on the compound of interest to agree to the Bristol Myers Squibb Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy and begin the application process.
Login to the application utilizing your email address and password (create a new password if this is the first time accessing the application system).
Complete the demographic fields on the application.
Upload the required documents as PDF files. A LOI and CV are required. If you have a Letter of Intent (LOI) document, please upload. If you do not have your own LOI template, please utilize the template here.
Researchers requesting compounds
Please  click here  to agree to the Bristol Myers Squibb Terms and Conditions, Privacy Policy and to begin the application process.
Researchers Amending an Existing Compound Request Agreement
Amend the terms of your agreement  (extend the duration, request additional materials, etc.)
Therapeutic area
Cardiovascular
Apixaban
Other
Immunoscience
Abatacept
Belatacept
Clazakizumab {anti IL-6)
Other
Oncology
Androgen Receptor
BET
CCR2/5
CD73
CTLA-4 NF
CTLA-4 NF Probody
CTLA-4 Probody
Dasatinib
Elotuzumab
Fucosyl-GM1
IDO1
IL-8
Ipilimumab
LAG3
Nivolumab
NKG2A
NLRP3
Other
OX40
SIRPa
STING
TIGIT
TIM-3
Fibrosis
LPA Antagonists
Autotaxin
Other
Neuroscience
All Compounds
Technology/materials requests
For researchers interested in obtaining technology/materials (cell lines, transgenic animals, nucleic acid constructs, purified proteins, etc.) for laboratory and/or animal research.
Technology/Materials requests include but are not necessarily limited to:
Cell lines
Transgenic animals
Nucleic acid constructs
Purified proteins
Engineered bacteria & viruses
How to apply:
Login to the application utilizing your email address and password (create a new password if this is the first time accessing the application system).
Complete the demographic fields on the application.
Upload the required documents as PDF files. A Research Proposal and CV are required. If you have a Research Proposal document, please upload. If you do not have your own Research Proposal template, please utilize the template here.
NOTE: If you are requesting transgenic animals, Bristol Myers Squibb requires that you submit a completed animal welfare risk assessment questionnaire with your application. Please  click here  to access the animal welfare risk assessment questionnaire.
Researchers requesting technology/materials
Please
click here
to agree to the Bristol Myers Squibb Terms and Conditions, Privacy Policy and to begin the application process.
Researchers amending an existing technology/ materials agreement
Amend the terms of your agreement  (extend the duration, request additional materials, etc.)
Investigator-Sponsored Research

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company