
Verification statements
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Governance
Verification statements
Bristol Myers Squibb has obtained the following independent reviews:
Investor Carbon Disclosure Project - Accuracy of GHG Emissions & Water Withdrawal Assertions
Select Environmental Data – Independent Assurance Statement
Investor carbon disclosure project – Accuracy of GHG emissions and water withdrawal assertions
Apex Companies. LLC (Apex) was engaged by Bristol Myers Squibb to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water withdrawal reported by Bristol Myers Squibb for the period of January 1, 2022, to December 31, 2022. The verification statements apply to the related information included within the scope of work.
The determination of the GHG emissions and water withdrawal is the sole responsibility of Bristol Myers Squibb. Apex’s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions and water withdrawal assertions, and on the underlying systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information.
Copies of the letters detailing the results of this assessment are available here.
GHG Data Assurance (PDF) ;
Water Withdraw Data Assurance (PDF) .
Select environmental data - Independent assurance statement
Apex Companies. LLC (Apex) was engaged by Bristol Myers Squibb to conduct an independent assurance of select environmental data reported in its corporate social responsibility report (the Report). This assurance statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below for the period of January 1, 2022, to December 31, 2022. The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Bristol Myers Squibb. The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to Bristol Myers Squibb stakeholders on the accuracy, reliability and objectivity of select information included in the report.
The data and its presentation in the report are the sole responsibility of the management of Bristol Myers Squibb. Apex was not involved in the drafting of the data or the Report.
Scope of work
Bristol Myers Squibb requested Apex to include in its independent review the following:
Assurance of the environmental data, specifically:
Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) associated with manufacturing and R&D facilities, U.S. and Canada sales vehicle fleet, distribution centers and offices
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) associated with manufacturing and R&D facilities, distribution centers and offices
GHG emissions (Scope 3) associated with purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities, upstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, business air travel, and employee commuting
Total energy consumption associated with manufacturing and R&D facilities, distribution centers, offices, U.S. and Canada sales vehicle fleet, and business air travel
Water consumption associated with manufacturing and R&D facilities, distribution centers and offices.
Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the reported environmental information;
Evaluation of the reported data against BMS’ internal reporting procedures; and
Evaluation of the GHG emissions data against the requirements of the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards.
A copy of the Independent Assurance Statement detailing the results of this assessment is available here.
Environmental Sustainability Report Assurance .

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company