
Lung cancer experts (left to right): Nicolas Girard, MD, PhD, professor of respiratory medicine and head of Curie-Montsouris Thorax Institute, Curie Institute; Danielle Hicks, chief patient officer, GO2 Foundation for Lung Cancer
Science
The quest to stop cancer from coming back
How physicians, researchers and advocates are working towards this goal for patients
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
March 31, 2022
Our stories
/
Science
In his 15 years as a lung cancer specialist, Professor Nicolas Girard, MD, PhD, of the Curie-Montsouris Thorax Institute has seen – and helped advance – dramatic changes in how patients with this disease are treated. Yet despite this progress, lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer deaths globally, and even patients who are diagnosed early often experience recurrence.
“Patients with lung cancer who are eligible for resection undergo surgical treatment with a curative intent, meaning the aim is to avoid any event related to cancer after surgery,” said Professor Girard. “Unfortunately, given the aggressiveness of the disease, many patients eventually experience recurrence.”
Some patients receive chemotherapy before or after surgery with the goal of reducing the likelihood of the cancer’s return, but the evidence to support this treatment approach remains limited. To better protect patients with lung cancer against disease recurrence, additional treatment options are needed urgently.
Danielle Hicks, chief patient officer at the GO2 Foundation for Lung Cancer, has experienced this unmet need firsthand. When her mother was diagnosed with stage 3b lung cancer in 2003, she was initially told there were no options at the time but to go home.
“Walking side-by-side with my mother though her treatment process, I learned that navigating treatment options can be an overwhelming experience,” said Hicks.  Fortunately, Hicks’ mother defied the odds and is still alive today. The two went on to use their experience to educate and advocate for people living with lung cancer.
“Many people don’t understand the difference between an early-stage or metastatic diagnosis – they believe that cancer is treated the same way,” Hicks said. “Anytime someone hears they have cancer, they very rarely hear what is said next. It is terrifying regardless of the stage of the disease.”
Jonathan Spicer, MD, PhD,
associate professor of surgery, McGill University, and attending surgeon, Division of Thoracic and Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, Montreal General Hospital, McGill University Health Centre, discusses unmet medical needs in resectable lung cancer
Eric Van Cutsem, MD, PhD,
professor and division head of digestive oncology, University of Leuven (KUL) and University Hospitals Gasthuisberg, on treatment challenges in resectable cancer
Marc-Oliver Grimm, MD,
professor of medicine and head of the urology department, Jena University Hospital, discusses the need for additional treatment options in earlier stages of cancer
Nicolas Girard, MD, PhD,
professor of respiratory medicine and head of Curie-Montsouris Thorax Institute, Curie Institute, on exploring immunotherapy in early settings
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
Disrupting the course of cancer with immunotherapy
Though earlier-stage cancers generally have better prognoses, recurrence often marks the transition to incurable disease and represents a life-altering event for patients. That raises an important question for researchers: what can be done in addition to surgery, to reduce the chance of recurrence?
One strategy that BMS is investigating is the use of immunotherapy, which works with the body’s immune system to help address cancer. Immunotherapy research started in the metastatic setting, where there was the most immediate need to extend lives.
Now, BMS hopes to build on this progress by exploring the potential benefits of bringing immunotherapy into the neoadjuvant (before surgery), adjuvant (after surgery) and peri-operative (both before and after surgery) settings. The science of cancer and the immune system supports this effort.
In earlier stages, cancer may be more responsive to treatment and the patient’s immune system may be more intact, potentially presenting a more favorable environment for treatment with immunotherapy. Removal of a tumor with surgery along with the appropriate use of systemic therapy may provide an opportunity for long-term clinical benefit and potentially a cure.
This insight is important to physicians like Professor Girard, who is eager to help his patients achieve better outcomes.
“The ultimate goal of treatment, whether treatment is given in the neoadjuvant, adjuvant or peri-operative setting, is to prevent recurrence. In other words, our aim is to improve survival rates and long-term outcomes for patients,” he said.
In the past few years, there have been noteworthy advances in research evaluating immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer. The next step? According to Professor Girard, further studies should prioritize identifying which patients may respond best to immunotherapy in earlier disease settings by analyzing biomarkers and their interactions with the immune system.
“
"When the immune system is not yet exhausted, as we may see in metastatic disease, we may use immunotherapy before or after surgery to stimulate the interaction between the immune system and cancer cells."
Nicolas Girard, MD, PhD, professor of respiratory medicine and head of Curie-Montsouris Thorax Institute, Curie Institute
”
Danielle Hicks, chief patient officer, GO2 Foundation for Lung Cancer, on the importance of bringing new options to patients diagnosed with earlier disease
Improving long-term patient outcomes
To Hicks, making progress in earlier-stage cancer intervention matters on both a personal and professional level. She has spent the last fifteen years working with people diagnosed with different stages and types of lung cancer and continues to advocate for them every day.
“I made a conscious choice a long time ago to stand next to these people – to help educate and empower them on their disease, and to help them find hope in their tomorrows,” said Hicks.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Exploring the potential of immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer >
Experts weigh in: immunotherapy in earlier stages of cancer >
Kald Abdallah, driven by a personal passion, wants to discover ways to treat cancer earlier >

August 24, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company