
News & Perspectives
HCV China campaign for World Hepatitis Day
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
July 28, 2017
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
According to the most recent Global Hepatitis Report by the World Health Organization, 71 million people are living with a chronic hepatitis C (HCV) infection. In China, some 10 million people are currently living with the disease, making China the country with the highest number of HCV cases in the world.
“Hepatitis,” most often caused by a virus,  means inflammation of the liver, the organ that processes nutrients, filters the blood, and fights infections. HCV, along with Hepatitis B, is the most common cause of liver cirrhosis and cancer.
Today Bristol Myers Squibb marks World Hepatitis Day by launching a new campaign in China meant to correct common misperceptions about HCV, and raise awareness about the need for individuals at risk for developing HCV to seek medical advice.
The campaign, designed to help support the World Health Organization’s goal of eliminating hepatitis C in China by 2030, encourages individuals infected with HCV, or those at risk for developing the virus, to “Act Now LIVE betteR” by seeking early screening and diagnosis.
Developed in partnership with the China Association of Health Promotion and Education, the campaign will run until May 2018.
The campaign, designed to help support the World Health Organization’s goal of eliminating hepatitis C in China by 2030, encourages individuals infected with HCV, or those at risk for developing the virus, to “Act Now LIVE betteR” by seeking early screening and diagnosis.
Developed in partnership with the China Association of Health Promotion and Education, the campaign will run until May 2018.
“As leaders in scientific excellence, BMS continues to work to encourage those at risk for developing HCV to seek medical advice and diagnosis,” said Dr. Karl Lintel, President of Bristol Myers Squibb China. “I am proud of the Act now LIVE betteR campaign and all it is doing to raise awareness and help eradicate the stigma attached to HCV.”
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
BMS Foundation
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Answering the urgent call for more hematologists in Africa >
PharmD resident takes journey of a lifetime >
Disaster relief information for patients >

September 28, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company