
Supporting our communities
We care deeply about the communities where we live and work. That’s why we support programs and organizations that address unmet medical needs, help students grow through STEM education, and deliver basic human services to our neighbors.
About us
Responsibility
Supporting our communities
Community giving is one of three major ways Bristol Myers Squibb supports worthwhile causes and conscientious citizenship. We also work to reduce health disparities worldwide through the  Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation , and our  corporate giving  efforts support the advancement of health care and scientific understanding.
Latest success stories
BMS Foundation Grant Supports PPE For Healthcare Workers
Read More
Boys & Girls Club of Mercer County’s Computer Exchange Program: STEM Programming Creates Career Pathway
Read More
HomeFront: Providing a Safe Harbor after a Hurricane
Read More
Program funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb Saves Lives
Read More
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
Our initiatives
Addressing Unmet needs
Each year, we work with nonprofit partners to improve access to treatment, eliminate health disparities and promote healthy lifestyles throughout our communities.
See what we've accomplished >
Improving science education
Because today’s students will discover tomorrow’s medicines, we’re committed to improving science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) studies in schools and community organizations.
How we create learning opportunities >
Helping people in need
Through philanthropy, volunteerism and partnerships, we provide essential human needs to the our hungry, homeless, elderly and underserved citizens.
Easing the struggle >
Community giving
Who can apply
Our Community Giving Program accepts applications from IRS-qualified 501 (c)(3) non-profit organizations whose mission and programs are consistent with our areas of philanthropic interest, and which serve communities in the United States where our employees live and work.
We accept requests year-round.* For all community giving applications, we strongly urge you to submit your application at least 12 weeks in advance of the date of required funding. Funding decisions are announced by letter to recipient organizations. We will contact you if we need additional information.
Apply now
Locations
Bristol Myers Squibb accepts community giving requests from organizations located near these locations in the continental United States:
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Devens, Massachusetts
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Lawrenceville, New Jersey
Princeton, New Jersey
Redwood City, California
San Diego, California
Seattle, Washington
Tampa, Florida
West Windsor, New Jersey

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company