
Affirmative action and equal employment opportunity policy statement
About us
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
Our commitment to EEO
Affirmative action and equal employment opportunity policy statement
A NOTICE AND INVITATION TO ALL EMPLOYEES AND APPLICANTS
Bristol Myers Squibb Company (“BMS”) has been and will continue to be an equal opportunity employer. To assure full implementation of this equal employment policy, we will take steps to assure that:
Persons are recruited, hired, assigned and promoted without regard to race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, age, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, or protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by local, state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations.
All other employee actions, such as compensa­tion, benefits, transfers, layoffs and recall from layoffs, access to training, education, tuition assistance and social recreation pro­grams are administered without regard to race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, age, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, or protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by local, state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations.
Employees and applicants shall not be subjected to harassment, intimidation, threats, coercion or discrimination because they have: (1) filed a complaint; (2) assisted or participated in an investigation, compliance review, hearing or any other activity related to the administration of any federal, state or local law requiring equal employment opportunity; (3) opposed any act or practice made unlawful by any federal, state or local law requiring equal opportunity or (4) exercised any other right protected by federal, state or local law requiring equal opportunity.
I have appointed Marijana Haskell   to take on the responsibili­ties of EEO/Affirmative Action Plan Specialist.  Marijana Haskell will be respon­sible for the day-to-day imple­ment­a­tion and monitoring of the Company’s Affirmative Action Plans.  As part of that responsibil­ity, Marijana Haskell will periodi­cally analyze the Company's employee actions and their effects to ensure compliance with our equal employ­ment policy and administer the audit and reporting system.
If you, as one of our employees or as an applicant for employment, have any questions about this policy or would like to view portions of the Affirmative Action Plan, please contact Marijana Haskell at
609-252-2727  , or
Marijana Haskell , during regular business hours. This is also a reminder that employees may update their disability status at any time in Workday.  If you have questions about how to do so, please contact People Services via
via myBMS .
I have reviewed and fully endorse our Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity program.  In closing, I ask the continued assistance and support of all of the Company's employees to attain our objec­tive of equal employment opportunity for all.
Sincerely,
Chris Boerner, CEO, Bristol Myers Squibb

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company