
Shareholder services
Investors
Shareholder services
Explore shareholder services
Annual Meeting of Shareholders >
Cost basis calculator >
Acquisition FAQs for Celgene shareholders >
Acquisition FAQs for Mirati shareholders >
Buying shares
EQ Shareowner Services (formerly Wells Fargo Shareowner Services) is our transfer and record-keeping agent and administers all matters related to our stock.
To learn more about or to purchase our stock online through EQ Shareowner Services, please visit  https://www.shareowneronline.com
To request an enrollment package by phone:
1-855-598-5485 toll-free within the U.S.
1-651-450-4064 from outside the U.S.
A telecommunications relay service should be used by the hearing impaired when calling the telephone numbers above.
To contact in writing:
EQ Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120
Learn About Buying Shares >
Check your account
Annual meeting of shareholders
Learn more >
You may complete the following transactions online at
http://www.shareowneronline.com :
Change address
Purchase more shares for as little as $50 or as much as $10,000
Get dividend information
Obtain your account balance
Sell shares
Automatically invest your cash dividends
View tax information
Order a paper stock certificate
If your stock is held by a broker, please contact your broker.
Check your account >
FAQs for BMY shareholders
Where are Bristol Myers Squibb shares traded?
Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
What is Bristol Myers Squibb's ticker symbol?
BMY
Who is the transfer agent for Bristol Myers Squibb?
EQ Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120
www.shareowneronline.com
1-855-598-5485 (within U.S.)
1-651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.)
A telecommunications relay service should be used by the hearing impaired when calling the telephone numbers above.
When does Bristol Myers Squibb pay dividends?
Dividend payments on Bristol Myers Squibb Company's common stock are declared at the discretion of the Board of Directors and are typically payable at the following dates: February 1, May 1, August 1, and November 1. Dividend payments on Bristol Myers Squibb Company's preferred stock are payable on the following dates: March 1, June 1, September 1, December 1.
How do I sign up for the direct deposit of dividends service?
No more waiting for your dividend checks to arrive in the mail. Instead, the funds are sent electronically to your commercial bank, savings and loan, or credit union and credited to your account on the payment date. The dividends are processed through the Automated Clearing House, the same network that processes the direct deposit of Social Security payments.
To have your dividend directly deposited, you may request an enrollment card from our transfer agent, EQ Shareowner Services, at 855-598-5485. Or you may access your account and enroll online at
www.shareowneronline.com.
Does Bristol Myers Squibb offer dividend reinvestment?
EQ's Shareowner Services Plus Plan offers reinvestment of dividends to Bristol Myers Squibb Company shareholders of record. The company has appointed EQ Shareowner Services as administrator for the program. The program is not sponsored or administered by Bristol Myers Squibb.
For additional information, please contact our transfer agent, EQ Shareowner Services, at 855-598-5485. Or you may access your account and enroll online at
www.shareowneronline.com
Does Bristol Myers Squibb offer direct stock purchase?
EQ's Shareowner Services Plus Plan offers direct stock purchase to Bristol Myers Squibb Company shareholders of record and other interested investors. The company has appointed EQ Shareowner Services as administrator for the program. The program is not sponsored nor administered by Bristol Myers Squibb.
Please go to the
Buying Shares
Web page for additional information.
What is a record date?
A record date is the date on which you must be officially listed as a stockholder of a company in order to receive a declared dividend or be eligible to vote at a company's annual or special meeting.
What does it mean when stock is purchased "ex-dividend"?
Ex-dividend periods are set by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). An ex-dividend period begins a few days prior to the record date for a dividend payment. When shares are purchased "ex-dividend," the seller of the shares, not the purchaser, is entitled to receive the next dividend payment.
What is a "street name" or beneficial holder?
Securities held in the name of a broker for the client are said to be carried in "street name." This occurs when the customer wishes the security to be held by the broker. Collection of dividends is performed by the broker and credited to the client's account.
What does book-entry form mean?
Book-entry form is registered ownership of stock without the issuance of a corresponding stock certificate, as is the case with dividend reinvestment and direct purchase plans, employee plans and "Direct Registration System" issuances. Periodic statements of ownership are issued instead of certificates.
What is a capital gain/loss?
The difference between the purchase price and the selling price of a security is referred to as a capital gain or loss.
When is the annual meeting of shareholders?
Please check
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
page for meeting schedule and updates.
Acquisition FAQs for Celgene Shareholders
Frequently asked questions about Celgene shares and CVRs.
Learn More
Cost basis calculator
For a fee, you may use NetBasis to calculate the cost basis for your Bristol Myers Squibb Company common stock, adjusted for any corporate actions or dividend reinvestments.
Learn more
Materials on this website may contain information about the Company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained on this website should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
In addition, any information contained on this website was current as of the date presented and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Consequently, the company will not update the information contained on the website and investors should not rely upon the information as current or accurate after the presentation date. The website may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for a particular quarterly period are available on the company’s website at
www.bms.com .​​​

April 26, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company