
Featured Researcher: Roland Chen – Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - Roland Chen
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Roland Chen, MD
Senior Vice President and Head of Immunology, Cardiovascular & Neuroscience Development
Central New Jersey
Biography
Roland Chen serves as the head of Immunology, Cardiovascular & Neuroscience (ICN) Development within Bristol Myers Squibb’s Drug Development organization.  In this role, Roland oversees early-stage and late-stage product development across the ICN therapeutic areas. Roland and his organization focus on enabling the rapid progression and delivery of assets, from proof-of-concept to commercialization, through world-class clinical trial design and operations. The ICN Vision: To develop and deliver best-in-class and first-in-class medicines to patients globally addressing high unmet medical needs.
Roland has been a part of Bristol Myers Squibb’s talented team of researchers for over two decades, starting immediately after his post-doctoral fellowship in medical informatics at Yale. Roland first joined Bristol Myers Squibb in the Health Outcomes Research group. He has spent most of his time at the company within global clinical development and also has worked within the global patient safety organization.
Roland graduated from Princeton University with a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and went on to earn his master’s degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University, before earning his MD from the University of Pennsylvania. He completed his residency in internal medicine at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston.
Interests and Expertise
For Roland, his long-standing commitment to develop potential medicines for patients in need stems from the opportunity to work alongside talented colleagues, whose passion and commitment to science are continuing to drive novel research and development advancements.
“What initially drew me to Bristol Myers Squibb were the inspired and talented researchers with whom I would have a chance to work,” he said. “I'm hoping that the work my colleagues and I do will enable us to develop treatments that fundamentally make a positive impact on the lives of patients with cardiovascular diseases.”
When Roland isn’t focused on the next wave of potential treatment options for patients, he enjoys spending time with his family, and can often be found partaking in sports such as running and cycling.

June 14, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company