
Global Inclusion & Diversity
We view diversity in the broadest sense - including age, ethnicity, race, culture, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, abilities and disabilities, religion, socioeconomic background, veteran status, thinking styles, and life experiences, among other differences.
About us
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Through a culture of inclusion, we create an agile and responsive work environment where the diverse experiences and perspectives of all our employees help to drive innovation and transformative business results.
Our commitment to Global Inclusion & Diversity
Our 2021 Global Inclusion & Diversity report demonstrates how leading with our Value of Inclusion drives equitable advancement and outcomes for our patients and communities, our colleagues, and our business and industry.
Learn more >
Explore Global Inclusion & Diversity
Our commitment to Global Inclusion & Diversity  >
Global Inclusion & Diversity  >
People & Business Resource groups >
BOLD Innovators podcast series >
Our commitment to equal employment opportunity >
Global Inclusion & Diversity stories >
Digital accessibility >
BOLD Innovators podcast series >
The BOLD podcast series, BOLD innovators, highlights BMS leaders and their career journeys. It provides an authentic, personal perspective on how they shaped their careers, overcame hurdles and contributed to the greater organization.
Tomorrow's Innovators
Tomorrow's Innovators is an initiative that builds a sustainable bridge for diverse talent from Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to the biopharma industry.
Learn more >
Standing with Asian Americans
Bristol Myers Squibb CEO Emeritus Giovanni Caforio reflects on Asian American hate crimes.
Learn more >
Learn more about our Pan Asian Network (PAN) >
Our statement on developments in the U.S. affecting the LGBTQ+ community
The Supreme Court decision is a positive step, but we recognize that there is still work to be done, as LGBTQ+ people continue to face discrimination in many areas of life.
Learn more >
Giovanni Caforio reflects on events in the U.S.
Bristol Myers Squibb CEO Emeritus Giovanni Caforio reflects on the death of George Floyd and other African Americans.
Watch video >
Learn more about Black Organization for Leadership Development (BOLD) >
People and business resource groups
People and Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) represent one key strategy we use to support the business objectives, career advancement and development needs of our employees.
Employees voluntarily come together around a single dimension of diversity to help drive business results.
Members network, learn skills, participate in learning development events and contribute to the company's business objectives in a tangible way.
Learn more about our PBRGs >
Equal employment opportunity
Our commitment to a culture that is powerfully diverse and broadly inclusive expresses itself in everything we do and in every place we do it.
Read more about our commitment >
Supplier diversity
We actively seek to include small and diverse suppliers in our strategic sourcing and procurement processes.
Learn more >
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
The company's workforce diversity efforts are complemented by the work of our  Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, which focuses on addressing health disparities on a global scale.
Learn more >
Featured news and publications
December 13, 2023
How BMS is closing the diversity gap in clinical trials >
December 07, 2023
Celebrating women in STEM: Latin America's changing landscape >
June 16, 2022
Juneteenth: Remembering the past, reimagining the future >

June 12, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company