
Environmental sustainability
At BMS, we are dedicated to helping people prevail over serious diseases and we know our responsibility goes beyond medicine. That is why we are identifying actionable solutions and implementing changes to our business that minimizes our environmental footprint and addresses the harmful effects of environmental degradation and climate change on public health.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Environmental sustainability
Advancing energy efficiency
Through various modes of interaction, we continuously evaluate and optimize operations by reviewing efficiency data and sequences of operation.
See how we are advancing energy efficiency >
Climate and Environment
We are actively identifying solutions and implementing changes to our business that minimize our environmental footprint and address the harmful effects of environmental degradation and climate change on public health.
Read more about our climate and environmental commitments >
Employee Engagement
We foster a strong sustainability culture that is core to our values and beliefs and our mission to transform patients’ lives through science.
Discover more about our Employee Engagement efforts >
Pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE)
We integrate principles of resource conservation, pollution prevention and environmental responsibility into our business processes, facilities, operations and products.
Discover more about our approach to PiE >
Product stewardship
Our commitment to sustainability does not end when our life-saving medicines have been developed and manufactured—it continues throughout the process of packaging innovation to reduce our packaging footprint and shipping logistics as we transport our medicines to destinations around the world.
See our approach to stewardship >
Shipping & logistics
Our distribution and logistics team is responsible for working with outsourced operations providers to reduce waste, conserve energy and minimize carbon emissions.
Read more about shipping & logistics >
Supplier Engagement
We are continuously looking for ways to catalyze our supply base – identifying actionable ways to minimize impacts, provide resources, and use third party verification for accountability.
Find out more about our Supplier Engagement >
Sustainable facility design and green labs
At BMS, we apply sustainable facility and laboratory design principles, and provide our teams with the tools and resources to reduce GHG emissions, increase energy efficiency, and reduce waste and water use.
See how we are incorporating sustainable design practices >
Waste Management
We have implemented meaningful waste reduction strategies across our labs as well as packaging and transportation efficiencies, which are contributing to decreased waste and emissions.
View our waste reduction efforts >
Water
BMS continuously looks for ways to reduce our water consumption and find better mechanisms of water treatment.
Read more about our water conservation efforts >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company