
Workplace policies
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Social progress
Our employees
Workplace policies
Conduct and ethics strategy and management
Every year, key managers and executives are required to certify that they have read, understand, are in compliance with, and will continue to comply with our
Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics. (PDF)
Labor
We are committed to following all laws regarding child labor, forced labor and freedom of association. Bristol Myers Squibb will not tolerate practices that violate the intent of our
Mission and Commitment.
None of our operations have been identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor or forced labor.
Privacy protection
Compliance with data privacy laws on a global basis is an essential business practice for Bristol Myers Squibb. We have the responsibility to protect and respect personal information. All of our employees must comply with the highest standards of data privacy protection consistent with the laws of the jurisdiction in which they operate.
Security
The basis for our security efforts is to protect our employees, operations and intellectual property. Security personnel receive training to ensure compliance with legal requirements and respect for human rights. We incorporate security and human rights in our assessment of countries when determining where to locate operating facilities.
Suppliers and contractors
We expect our contractors and suppliers to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for the workplace, including health and safety, diversity and human rights. The performance of key suppliers is monitored regularly. More information on suppliers is available
here.
Employee grievance procedures
Our employees are expected to adhere to the highest ethical standards in the conduct of our business. The Office of Corporate Conduct is a resource for any employee to confidentially and anonymously report their concerns or raise questions. We regularly promote awareness of this resource to employees.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company