
Investor contacts
Investors
Investor contacts
FOR INVESTORS
BMS Investor Relations Mailbox
Investor.Relations@bms.com
FOR THE MEDIA
BMS Media Mailbox
media@bms.com
FOR SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
EQ Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120
www.shareowneronline.com
855-598-5485 (within U.S.)
651-450-4064 (outside the U.S.)
TDD telephone service for the hearing-impaired:
651-450-4144
Explore investor contacts
Investor alerts subscribe >
Investor alerts unsubscribe >
RSS feeds >
TRANSFER AGENT
EQ Shareowner Services is Bristol Myers Squibb's transfer agent and administers all matters related to stock that is directly registered with Bristol Myers Squibb.
Acquisition FAQs for Celgene Shareholders
Frequently asked questions about Celgene shares and CVRs.
Learn More
Materials on this website may contain information about the Company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained on this website should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
In addition, any information contained on this website was current as of the date presented and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Consequently, the company will not update the information contained on the website and investors should not rely upon the information as current or accurate after the presentation date. The website may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for a particular quarterly period are available on the company’s website at
www.bms.com .​​​

April 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company