
Featured Researcher: Jonathan Sadeh – Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - Jonathan Sadeh
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Jonathan Sadeh, MD, MSc
Senior Vice President, Head of Global Program Leaders, Immunology, Cardiovascular & Neuroscience
Central New Jersey
Biography
Jonathan serves as senior vice president of Head of Global Program Leaders, Immunology, Cardiovascular & Neuroscience at Bristol Myers Squibb. In this role, Jonathan leads a team that oversees the development of potential medicines for patients with immune-mediated, cardiovascular, and neuroscience related diseases, where he applies knowledge and insights from years of clinical development experience.
This includes development activities for assets pre-approval as well as approved medicines within the portfolio. Through the study of early, late-stage and approved assets, Jonathan and his team work to expand Bristol Myers Squibb’s franchise across a broad range of diseases in the areas of rheumatology, gastroenterology, dermatology, cardiovascular and neuroscience, as well as fibrotic conditions like pulmonary fibrosis. Since joining Bristol Myers Squibb in 2019, he has been instrumental in shaping the company’s immunology development strategy and ambition of creating an industry-leading franchise..
Jonathan previously held leadership roles at Sanofi, AstraZeneca and Schering-Plough (now a part of Merck), where he led teams and functions in both early and late development and was responsible for development and registration of drugs in the respiratory and rheumatology areas.
Before entering the pharmaceutical industry, he worked at Brigham and Women’s hospital in Boston as a physician scientist in the pulmonary division. He completed his pulmonary and critical care fellowship training at Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women’s hospitals, and received a master’s degree in clinical research from Harvard Medical School.
Interests and Expertise
Jonathan joined Bristol Myers Squibb for the opportunity to work with talented and passionate colleagues to develop potential medicines for people living with immune-mediated and fibrotic diseases.
“What drew me to Bristol Myers Squibb was the industry-leading portfolio, the opportunity to develop cutting-edge medicines for immune-mediated diseases and the culture and people, who I believe are some of the most talented, experienced professionals in the industry,” he said.
Outside of work, Jonathan is passionate about soccer. He enjoys both watching and playing the game.

November 03, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company