
Helping people in need
About us
Responsibility
Supporting our communities
Helping people in need
Bristol Myers Squibb has a strong legacy of giving back to our communities. Through philanthropy and volunteerism, we're committed to making an impact where we live and work.
Employee volunteer support
Our employees volunteer their time and expertise to help improve the quality of life in the communities where they live and work. In 2015, over 1400 employees participated in 76 volunteer events coordinated through our
Helping Hands
program, in which employees spend all or part of a paid workday supporting a local charitable cause with their colleagues.
Learn more about our grants to organizations focused on providing food, clothing and shelter to the most vulnerable.
Feeding the hungry
Bristol Myers Squibb provides volunteer and financial support to groups that help feed families. Employees at our Adnexus subsidiary in Waltham, Massachusetts, helped the
Greater Boston Food Bank  provide more than 500 bags – totaling 8,000 meals – that were distributed to hunger relief agencies. A Thanksgiving turkey drive was also organized for the Food Bank.
Our employees in central New Jersey volunteer at various soup kitchens and food pantries throughout the year, and Bristol Myers Squibb also provides donations to several of these organizations, including Catholic Charities,
Mercer Street Friends ,
HomeFront ,
Trenton Area Soup Kitchen , Trenton Area Community Services, Mobile Meals of Ewing/Trenton and
Elijah’s Promise  in New Brunswick. Employees also participate in an annual Thanksgiving food drive in conjunction with the
United Way of Greater Mercer County.
Fighting homelessness
Bristol Myers Squibb is proud to assist a number of organizations working to provide shelter and other necessities to those suffering from homelessness, including HomeFront, the  Rescue Mission of Trenton  and the  Arm in Arm  . Each offers food, shelter and supportive services to the homeless and the hungry in and around Trenton, New Jersey. Bristol Myers Squibb has also supported the  Mercer Alliance to End Homelessness  and its “Project Homeless Connect” outreach program.
A helping hand for the elderly and homebound
With limited mobility and financial resources, elderly people that live alone often require help with the simplest tasks of daily life.  Interfaith Caregivers  of Mercer County, New Jersey, matches individuals in need with volunteers who assist with things like home maintenance, chores, and food shopping. A grant from Bristol Myers Squibb is helping Interfaith Caregivers recruit, screen, train and manage volunteers , whose efforts make it possible for this vulnerable population to continue living safely in their homes.
We also support  Visiting Health and Supportive Services , a program in Hunterdon County, New Jersey, that provides in-home health support services to the elderly and help their families and caregivers cope with the demands created by aging and declining health.
Helping our neighbors with special needs
Individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities face unique challenges when accessing healthcare services. Bristol Myers Squibb supports a patient advocacy and care coordination program offered by  The Arc Mercer  in Ewing, New Jersey. We also support the Court-Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) of Mercer County Child Advocacy Program for abused and neglected children living in out-of-home placements. CASA’s specially trained volunteers help ensure that needed services and assistance are made available while helping to move the children into safe and permanent homes.
Members of our Differently-Abled Workplace Network People and Business Resource Group (PBRG) also volunteer with various organizations that assist people with physical, intellectual or developmental disabilities. For many years, we have provided financial and volunteer support to  Special Olympics New Jersey’s  sports training, competitions and health and fitness education programs.
Helping neighbors when disaster strikes
In the aftermath of emergencies such as fires and floods, the American Red Cross is there. Bristol Myers Squibb supports the  American Red Cross of Central New Jersey  and its Emergency Services Program, which enables vulnerable families to recover from disasters that may otherwise push them into poverty and homelessness. In central New Jersey, the on-site emergency services teams from our five facilities in the area assist with fires, hazardous materials emergencies and technical rescues that occur throughout the local communities. In addition, a number of Bristol Myers Squibb employees across the country serve as volunteer firefighters and rescue squad workers.
Making the holidays – and every day – brighter for children
Our employees lend their support to various organizations focused on making the holidays – and every day – a little brighter for children in need. Members of our Syracuse, New York, leadership team helped the Salvation Army sort food and toys, and stuff holiday stockings for more than 3,000 families in the Syracuse area.
At our manufacturing facility in Mount Vernon, Indiana, employees provided holiday gifts for needy children and military families through the Ministerial Association Program of Christmas Assistance for Posey County. Employees at our Adnexus subsidiary in Waltham, Massachusetts, participate annually in  “Frosty’s Friends,”  a holiday gift-giving program for children at the local Boys & Girls Club. In addition, employees in central New Jersey work with Adopt-a-Family to provide holiday gifts and backpacks full of school supplies.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company