
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Our approach to environmental, social, governance (ESG)
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
At BMS, we understand the future of our employees, communities and business are inextricably linked. Our passion for making an impact extends beyond the discovery, development and delivery of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. Through our environmental, social, governance (ESG) strategy, we seek to mobilize our capabilities and resources to positively impact the communities where we live, work and serve around the world.
As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work. Learn more about Bristol Myers Squibb’s commitment to the health of people, society and the planet.
Explore sustainability
2023 ESG report  >
A letter from our Board Chair & CEO  >
Task force on climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) report >
Global Materiality Assessment >
Economic responsibility >
Social progress >
Environmental performance >
UN global compact communication on progress 2022 >
Building a better future >
Learn more about the 2023 Bristol Myers Squibb ESG Report
“We take our obligation to build and maintain trust with our stakeholders very seriously. Our ESG commitments are our compact with society — we hold ourselves accountable to these standards, and to making a meaningful and measurable impact in the communities where we live and work.”
Cari Gallman
Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs at Bristol Myers Squibb
“
"I am immensely proud of the progress our teams have made toward achieving our ESG goals and am confident in the positive impact BMS will continue to have on our patients and the world."
Chris Boerner, PhD, Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer at Bristol Myers Squibb
”
2023 ESG highlights
In 2023, we conducted a global ESG materiality assessment to understand evolving stakeholder views and ensure our ESG strategy reflects the rapidly changing landscape. These insights enabled the company to evolve ESG priorities across three key priority pillars.
Our strategy also amplifies our strong performance across vital topics such as product quality, ethics and conduct, and reducing our
environmental impact.
Advancing patient health around the world
12M+   people reached through BMS’ health equity grants between 2020-2023
11  emerging market brands filed in low- and middle–income countries
Expanding the boundaries of science
11  approvals in the U.S., EU and Japan in 2023
30+  assets in early-stage clinical development
Fostering an inclusive global workforce
~41%
of BMS employees are members of one or more PBRG
47.4%
of our employees at the executive level are female
Additional accomplishments in 2023:
Published first task force on climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) report
Announced a second 15-year Virtual Power Purchasing Agreement (VPPA) with national grid renewables for 145 megawatts (MW) of solar
Download 2023 ESG report >
View our verification statements >
For prior year ESG reports, please visit the links below:
Read the 2022 Report
Read the 2021 Report
Read the 2020 Report

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company