
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Cardiovascular Research
Survey Demonstrates the Need for More Effective Policy Responses to Prevent Stroke in Europe
New research from The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), a division of The Economist Group, further reinforces the need for more investment into stroke prevention in Europe
November 18, 2020
Anew  report  from The Economist Intelligence Unit, a division of The Economist Group and a leader in global business intelligence, suggests that more effective policy responses are needed to prevent stroke in Europe. The findings suggest current stroke prevention investment is insufficient to further decrease rates of stroke in Europe, with  60% of survey respondents as a whole noting that government funding in stroke prevention is lacking  to prevent admissions to emergency hospital departments in the long term. 1
Click here
to see the full  “The Econnomist Intelligence Unit”  report.
The report, sponsored by the Bristol Myers Squibb-Pfizer Alliance, is based on surveys and in-depth interviews from December 2019-January 2020 with more than 250 senior executives from healthcare policy and payer organizations (public and private), patient advocacy groups and the healthcare workforce across five major European countries – France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK – to better understand variations in European policy.
The report also suggests a few primary areas that surveyed policymakers and healthcare providers agree need deeper investment in order to help provide better care for patients, with an emphasized need for government funding and support for education and awareness initiatives given  71% of respondents do not think that many people understand the impact of stroke.  1
Additional considerations for stroke prevention include implementing clinical guidelines and utilizing digital tools. Of note, only 39% of all respondents believe the latest clinical guidelines for managing people at risk of stroke are being “mostly” or “entirely” implemented.  1  Lack of funding from national authorities and a lack of understanding of key stroke risk factors are the largest barriers to implementation, according to respondents. 1
Digital investment is trending with respondents as well – with the uptake of digital tools like apps and smart watches to detect and monitor stroke risk factors rise, many respondents feel more digital investment and support from the government is important for future stroke prevention. Seventy-one percent of survey respondents agreed, saying mobile and/or digital health apps provide them with useful data to help support stroke prevention, although 48% say they do not always have time to look at the data from them to support decision-making.  1
Although the surveys and in-depth interviews took place prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the considerations in the report around policy and investment efforts for preventing stroke have become even more relevant during the pandemic. Navigating this new healthcare environment is vital to the continued care and management of stroke in patients, both now and moving forward. With these findings, it is our hope that by addressing key areas of investment, we can help to potentially further reduce rates of stroke in Europe.
Reference:
“No Time for Silence: Exploring policy approaches to investment in stroke prevention in Europe”,  The Economist Intelligence Unit
related articles
Meet Tabitha >
Consumer wearable technology advancements may support AFib detection >
Are you familiar with AFib symptoms and the increased risk of stroke associated with the condition? >

August 23, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company