
CORDAID: EFCI Partnership - Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation Focus Area
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
HIV
CORDAID: EFCI Partnership
CORDAID: EFCI Partnership
CORDAID: EFCI Partnership was granted $400,000 over a period of 2 years to help reduce the mortality and morbidity from breast and cervical cancer in selected Ethiopian districts.
Need
Among Ethiopian women, breast and cervical cancer are the most frequent forms of cancer. Moreover, many women seek treatment only at a very late stage when their cancer has significantly advanced, thus facing a higher probability of mortality.
Comprehensive awareness on female cancer is low also among health professionals, screening and treatment services are largely unavailable and there is little provision of (palliative) care for women with cancer. Investing in the prevention and control of cervical cancer is proven to be a cost- effective intervention to avert preventable suffering among women. The human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine has the potential to prevent one third of all cases of cervical cancer. Routine cervical cancer screening and early treatment can prevent up to 80% of cervical cancers if abnormalities of the cervix are identified in an early stage. Preventative measures for and attending to breast cancer is more difficult. However, there is still a lot to win if breast cancer is detected in an early stage; self-examination and palpation breast examination can be promoted. Secondly progress can be made if women don’t delay to seek for diagnosis and treatment services in the official health system. Palliative care is another field where improvements can be made.
Project
CORDAID will contribute to the PRRR and Ethiopian government goal of reducing mortality and morbidity from breast and cervical cancer through appropriate awareness creation, cost effective screening and treatment, research, comprehensive care and support in:
Selected Ethiopian districts in the Sidama zone,
Selected areas of Hawassa town of the Southern Nations Nationalities
Peoples region
Addis Ababa.
At a national level, the EFCI program has the objective to strengthen the evidence-based monitoring (via HMIS) to inform the female cancer policy and program implementation. In addition, EFCI aims to ensure optimal coordination between stakeholders and alignment with FMOH policy.
Cordaid Ethiopia, as the lead Agency, will monitor the progress of all the activities planned and prepare half yearly reports. In addition, it will perform bi-annual monitoring visits to the two implementing partners in BEZA and MJDA. Furthermore, a mid-term review and external end-evaluation are planned. The findings will be shared with the partners and BMSF in a workshop.
Partners
BEZA
Mary Joy Development Agency
The Female Cancer Foundation
The School of Public Health of the Addis Ababa University
PRRR partners
See where we are helping

September 18, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company