
Immunology patient resources
Patients & caregivers
Patient resources
Immunology patient resources
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Our commitment to elevating patient care in immunology
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are working to deliver meaningful solutions that address unmet needs in rheumatology, gastroenterology, dermatology and pulmonology. While there has been progress with medicines for immune-mediated diseases, people living with these conditions may not respond to available treatments. Many continue to endure chronic symptoms and disease progression that can take a toll on their daily life.
Our goal is to restore some of what immune-mediated diseases have taken away — empowering patients and their loved ones to take back their lives.
Immunology focus areas
Rheumatology >
Gastroenterology >
Dermatology >
Pulmonology >
Rheumatology
Rheumatic diseases can be debilitating for the tens of millions worldwide who often live with chronic pain that can make simple tasks and everyday activities challenging.
Building on more than 20 years of experience, at Bristol Myers Squibb we are following the science to tailor therapies to a person’s individual needs, improve outcomes and expand treatment options for rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis, lupus and ankylosing spondylitis. Through our ongoing research, educational resources and partnerships with the community, our goal is to provide new solutions that advance care and provide the potential for remission.
Our commitment to elevating patient care in immunology
Rheumatoid arthritis >
Learn more about RA, its symptoms and its potential impact on patients.
Psoriatic arthritis >
Learn more about psoriatic arthritis, a chronic, immune-mediated disease that impacts the joints and skin.
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis >
Learn more about juvenile idiopathic arthritis and how the disease may impact patients.
Lupus >
Learn more about lupus, its symptoms and its potential impact on patients.
Systemic lupus erythematosus >
Learn more about systemic lupus erythematosus, a chronic immune-mediated disease that can affect almost any organ.
Ankylosing spondylitis >
Learn more about ankylosing spondylitis, its symptoms and its potential impact on patients.
Sjögrens Disease >
Learn more about Sjögrens Disease, its symptoms and its potential impact on patients.
About our clinical trials
Learn about clinical trials and search for a clinical trial that might be right for you or a loved one.
Learn more >
Back to top
Gastroenterology
Bristol Myers Squibb is pursuing innovative research to potentially change the course of gastrointestinal immune-mediated diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (which includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease) and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), a chronic, progressive condition that affects the esophagus.
Our innovations have the potential to provide relief and remission to people living with these conditions. Through our research, educational resources and connections with the community to provide support, our goal is to help empower patients to take back what these diseases often take away.
The burden of eosiniphilic esophagitis >
Learn about eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) and Bristol Myers Squibb's research in this video from Estelle Vester-Blokland, senior vice president, Global Medical Affairs.
Winter's story: living with ulcerative colitis >
Learn about Winter's journey of living with ulcerative colitis for more than 20 years.
Understanding the needs of people living with IBD >
Learn how Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to ongoing research in IBD.
Break the silence: shining a light on IBD >
Read this Q&A with leaders of European Federation of Crohn's & Ulcerative Colitis Associations (EFCCA) regarding World IBD Day, and learn about the importance of advocating for patients suffering with various IBDs.
One woman's account of living with ulcerative colitis >
Laurie shares the inspiring story of how she persevered as a working mother and patient living with ulcerative colitis.
Leading the charge against eosinophilic esophagitis >
Discover how Bristol Myers Squibb is leading the way in improving Eosinophilic Esophagitis treatment and early diagnosis for improved patient well being.
Crohn's disease >
Learn more about Crohn’s disease, a gastrointestinal immune-mediated disease that affects patients worldwide.
Ulcerative colitis >
Learn more about ulcerative colitis, its symptoms and effects on patients.
Eosinophilic esophagitis  >
Learn more about EoE, a chronic, progressive, immune-mediated disease that affects the esophagus.
About our clinical trials
Learn about clinical trials and search for a clinical trial that might be right for you or a loved one.
Learn more >
Back to top
Dermatology
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are advancing innovative solutions to address the pressing needs that continue to exist for people living with dermatologic immune-mediated diseases. Our pioneering research is leading to the potential for safe and effective new medicines.
We are committed to providing resources that help with disease management and support, pursuing new treatments for diseases like psoriasis and atopic dermatitis and exploring a broad range of serious dermatologic conditions in our early research.
Patient experience of living with psoriasis >
Learn about Royce Thomas' experience of living with psoriasis, as he speaks with Frida Dunger Johnsson, executive director of IFPA, and the importance of supporting the global community of individuals impacted by psoriatic disease.
Understanding key psoriasis outcome measures  >
Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to educating patients and healthcare providers about psoriasis so that they can work together to determine a disease management plan.
Becoming united: raising awareness globally on World Psoriasis Day
Frida Dunger Johnsson, executive director of IFPA, and Janina Kostiukaite, project developer, sat down with Bristol Myers Squibb to discuss the importance of uniting to support those with psoriatic diseases.
Psoriasis Around the World  >
Hear from patients, advocates and healthcare providers from around the world on the burden of psoriasis and learn about the health disparities faced by patients of color.
Psoriasis >
Learn more about psoriasis, a widely prevalent, chronic, systemic immune-mediated disease.
Psoriatic arthritis >
Learn more about psoriatic arthritis, a chronic, immune-mediated disease that impacts the joints and skin.
Atopic dermatitis >
Learn more about atopic dermatitis, its symptoms and effects on patients.
Psoriasis treatment types >
Learning more about different types of treatment options can help people work with their healthcare providers on the approach best suited to their needs.
About our clinical trials
Learn about clinical trials and search for a clinical trial that might be right for you or a loved one.
Learn more >
Back to top
Pulmonology
Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to applying expertise regarding the role of fibrosis in the development of several immune-mediated diseases to advance new treatments that go beyond symptom relief and address the underlying causes of disease.
Living with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis >
Read the inspiring story of Mal Doyle, a patient living with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, and learn how Bristol Myers Squibb is working towards developing potential treatments to slow the progression of pulmonary fibrosis.
Lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPA 1 ) in pulmonary fibrosis >
Learn more about Bristol Myers Squibb's commitment to developing new treatments for immune-mediated diseases with our research on the LPA 1
receptor and its role in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and progressive pulmonary fibrosis.
Back to top
About our clinical trials
Learn about clinical trials and search for a clinical trial that might be right for you or a loved one.
Learn more >

January 16, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company