
Our research in cardiovascular disease
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are building on our 70-year legacy of discovering and developing paradigm-changing medicines, leveraging our experience and expertise formed over the past several decades to take cardiovascular research to the next level. Our R&D philosophy is to change the course of disease by developing medicines that are first in class, best in class.
Researchers
Areas of focus
Our research in cardiovascular
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Featured in cardiovascular
Intended for healthcare professionals, scientific audiences and media.
We have always been driven by where the need is, to fulfill our mission by creating a world with better outcomes for those living with cardiovascular disease. Where others see challenge and risk, we see opportunity and motivation.
Advancing HCM care: a Q&A with Arnaud Bastien >
Treating cardiovascular care with heart >
Our patient stories: Meet Ian >
Our patient stories: Meet Mary Jean >
Our commitment to developing medicines to address the global burden of cardiovascular disease has never wavered; in fact, it is as strong as ever.
Explore our stories
View all >
Why is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, the most commonly inherited heart disease, often undiagnosed? >
Pioneering innovation in cardiovascular diseases >
No time to wait >
Our cardiovascular focus areas​
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM)
Atrial fibrillation (AFib)
Acute coronary syndrome (ACS)
Heart failure
Secondary stroke prevention
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM)
HCM is a chronic and progressive disease of the heart muscle in which the main pumping chamber (the left ventricle) becomes abnormally thick. It is harder for the HCM heart to relax normally and fill with blood, which reduces the amount of blood the left ventricle (lower heart chamber) can hold and send to the body with each heartbeat. The thickened heart muscle can also pump with too much force, increasing the heart muscle workload, causing the heart to use too much energy with every beat.
Scientific and disease-state resources
US hypertrophic cardiomyopathy fact sheet >
Global hypertrophic cardiomyopathy fact sheet >
Explore our stories
View all >
Why is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, the most commonly inherited heart disease, often undiagnosed? >
Advancing HCM care: a Q&A with Arnaud Bastien >
Our patient stories:
Meet Ian >
Atrial fibrillation (AFib)
Approximately 8.7 million patients in the U.S. have AFib not caused by a heart valve problem, and it is estimated that by 2030, approximately 12 million people in the US will have AFib.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Atrial fibrillation (AFib) fact sheet >
No time to wait >
Explore our stories
View all >
What are AFib symptoms? >
Meet Tabitha >
Consumer wearable technology advancements may support AFib detection >
Acute coronary syndrome (ACS)
ACS is a term used to describe situations in which the blood supplied to the heart muscle is suddenly blocked, and includes myocardial infarction (MI), also known as a heart attack, and unstable angina (sudden, severe chest pain that typically occurs when a person is at rest or with minimal exertion).
Heart failure
Heart failure is a progressive, debilitating disease characterized by a deterioration of heart function and supply of blood to critical organs.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Heart failure fact sheet >
Explore our stories
Joining forces to advance heart failure research >
Secondary stroke prevention
A stroke occurs when blood that carries oxygen and nutrients to the brain is either blocked by a clot or bursts (or ruptures). When that happens, part of the brain cannot get the blood (and oxygen) it needs, and brain cells die. [i]
Having a stroke leads to higher risk for a second one; one in four stroke survivors will have another stroke.
High risk of stroke recurrence and risk can remain after treatment. [ii]
Residual risk of ischemic stroke and bleeding events also remains a concern and balancing antithrombosis with risk of bleeding is challenging.
[i]  American Stroke Association. About Stroke. Accessed September 20, 2024.   https://www.stroke.org/en/about-stroke .
[ii]  Mohan KM, Wolfe CD, Rudd AG, Heuschmann PU, Kolominsky-Rabas PL, Grieve AP. Risk and cumulative risk of stroke recurrence: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Stroke. 2011;42(5):1489-1494. doi:10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.602615.
Explore our scientific resources
Learn more on our pipeline >
Request an independent research grant >
Search our scientific media resources >
Navigate to BMS Clinical Trials >
Meet our researchers
Learn more about the backgrounds, scientific pursuits and personal interests of members of our R&D team. These individuals are committed to pursuing Bristol Myers Squibb’s goal of discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines to patients.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team

May 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company