
Survivorship Today: Cancer survivor stories - Bristol Myers Squibb
CLOSE
Survivorship
Today
What It’s Like to Live with Cancer
Breakthroughs in cancer research are making it possible for more people to survive cancer.
Still, most people don’t understand that the disease can have lasting impacts on a person’s health and well-being. Survivorship Today is an initiative by Bristol Myers Squibb that shares diverse stories of people who have been affected by cancer to foster community and advance our collective understanding of what it’s like to live with the disease today.
Jump to:
Voices of survivorship
Survivorship Today x Black Health Matters
Resources
Share your story
Voices of survivorship
Hear from cancer survivors, caregivers and experts sharing their unique journeys and experiences.
Common Ground: Cancer survivorship and the stigma of masculinity >
Daniel: Using humor to cope and connect >
Bin: Reflecting on 10 years of cancer survivorship >
AJ: Coming to terms with the physical impact of cancer >
Search by
Categories
Caregiver perspective
Healthcare provider perspective
Patient Perspective
Topics
Health equity
Physical Impact
Well-being
Young adult
Sort by
Video date ascending
Video date descending
Title ascending
Title descending
No results found
No results were found with the related topics & categories.
<<
<
1
>
>>
Survivorship Today x Black Health Matters
Explore chapters from “In Her Shoes: Life as a Black Woman Cancer Survivor” — an intimate discussion led by Black Health Matters CEO and founder Roslyn Young-Daniels with two cancer survivors and an oncology social worker to discuss the realities of living with cancer as a Black woman.
Chapter 1
In her shoes: Meet the panelists >
Chapter 2
In her shoes: Finding community >
Chapter 3
In her shoes: Representation in healthcare >
Chapter 4
In her shoes: Addressing mental health >
Chapter 5
In her shoes: Advocating for your health >
Resources
Information and support if you or someone you know is living with cancer.
Resources near you >
Discover health services and assistance programs in your state.
Patients & Caregivers >
Find tools to address your concerns about living with cancer.
2023 State of Surviorship >
Explore findings from the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship's annual survey of people with cancer and caregivers.
Cancer survivorship statistics >
Watch video
Young Adults >
Uncover services for young adults, around finances, careers, access, family, and community.
Disclaimer: All patients, caregivers and health care providers featured on
SurvivorshipToday.com
were compensated for their time.

May 22, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company