
Mississippi Public Health Institute
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Our focus area
Combating cancer
Mississippi Public Health Institute
Need
The Mississippi Delta region ranks amongst the worst in the nation for prevalence of chronic diseases. Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality in the state, with nearly one-third of deaths attributable to lung cancer alone (Mississippi State Department of Health, 2015). Between 2007 and 2011, Mississippi State had the sixth-highest lung cancer mortality rate and the third highest incidence rate in the nation. (Centers for Disease Control, 2015).  However, according to the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer, there is no accredited cancer treatment in the Mississippi Delta. Likewise, there are no facilities recognized by the Association of Community Cancer Centers (ACCC). Greenwood Leflore Hospital (GLH) has recognized this gap in services and is establishing plans to move toward becoming a recognized cancer treatment facility.
Survive 2 Thrive
will lay the foundation for GLH to increase capacity and move more rapidly toward becoming the region’s comprehensive cancer center.
Project
The Mississippi Public Health Institute (MSPHI), in partnership with Greenwood Leflore Hospital (GLH), received $751,820 to implement "Survive 2 Thrive-- Community Based Survivorship Care for Lung Cancer Patients", an innovative patient-centered, evidence-based community care model that will leverage nurse navigators, social workers for case management, and community health workers for improving outcomes and quality of life for lung cancer survivors in the Mississippi Delta region.
MSPHI and GLH will partner with the Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH), GLH REACH project, and other organizations to leverage and utilize existing community-based programs and activities and ensure appropriate multi-sectoral stakeholder involvement. The MSPHI and GLH will solicit partnerships with the MSDH CDC-funded Comprehensive Cancer Program and the Delta Health Collaborative which share concerns about the region, underserved populations and community-based services and supports.
Project Leader
Roy Hart,
rhart@msphi.org
See where we are helping

September 17, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company