
BioLabs@NYULangone "Golden Ticket" submission
Business development
Early innovation at BMS
"Golden Ticket" contests
BioLabs@NYULangone "Golden Ticket" submission
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Bristol Myers Squibb is a Founding Sponsor of BioLabs@NYULangone, a premier coworking, innovative, shared laboratory space in Manhattan, NY designed as a launchpad for entrepreneurs of life-science and biotech start-ups. Bristol Myers Squibb is sponsoring a contest to award three "Golden Tickets". Each Golden Ticket is one year of underwritten individual laboratory bench space at BioLabs@NYULangone (“Award”).
Bristol Myers Squibb is now accepting applications for its 2019 Golden Ticket Contest until November 15, 2019. Companies engaged in therapeutic research in the fields of oncology, hematology, immunoscience, cardiovascular disease or fibrotic diseases are encouraged to apply, as are those pursuing research in novel target identification, drug delivery, discovery technology platforms or translational R&D.
A Golden Ticket is good for one individual bench in BioLabs@NYULangone’s shared facility, including all resident benefits, subject to BioLabs’ policies and the Bristol Myers Squibb Golden Ticket Contest Official Rules ("Official Rules"). BioLabs@NYULangone provides fully equipped, permitted and supported lab space for biomedical research, plus programming and unmatched networking opportunities to help start-ups advance their science and build their companies. Visit
https://www.biolabs.io/affiliate/New-York-NYULangone/
to learn more.
To submit an application to the Contest, please review the Official Rules,
download  and complete the attached Contest application form, including a brief, non-confidential pitch deck, and submit to
startup.submissions@bms.com
by 11:59 PM EST on November 15, 2019.
A sub-set of applicants will be identified by Contest Judges as finalists. Finalists will:
Present their concept at a Pitch Showcase attended by members of the NYC healthcare ecosystem, leaders from Bristol Myers Squibb Discovery and Translational Medicine, Business Development and other scientific staff from throughout Bristol Myers Squibb. All presentations at the Pitch Event will be non-confidential. The event will be held at BioLabs@NYULangone (180 Varick Street, 6 th
Floor, New York, NY 10014) on or around December 18, 2019.
Applicants are responsible for any costs incurred in participating in the Contest including travel and other expenses to travel to these activities associated with the Contest. Contest Winners will be announced at the Pitch Event consistent with the Official Rules.
Bristol Myers Squibb 2019 Golden Ticket Contest Official Rules identify the process for selecting the winners of the Contest, the Judging Criteria and other terms and conditions of the Contest. By submitting an application, applicants represent and warrant that they have read, understand and agree to the
Official Rules .

January 02, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company