
Our employees
As our most valued assets, employees create and contribute to our vibrant and diverse culture, expand the innovative possibilities and help successfully execute company strategies.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Social progress
Our employees
As a company, we operate under the highest ethical standards, with full respect for human rights and the rule of law. In regard to employment, retention and advancement, Bristol Myers Squibb strives to provide jobs and equal opportunities regardless of:
Sex
Race
Color
Religion
National origin
Age
Sexual orientation
Marital status
Physical or mental disability
Status as a covered veteran
At Bristol Myers Squibb, you can expect safe working conditions, fair wages and ethical work practices, including provisions against child and forced labor. We offer an array of career development and advancement opportunities as well as a performance management system that rewards behaviors and results.
Our responsibilities to our employees include:
Safety
Employee health and safety will always be a top priority. Our long-term aspiration is to eliminate all work-related injuries and illnesses. ( Learn more )
Health & wellness
Employee effectiveness both at work and at home is important to us. We offer several programs, policies and initiatives that focus on employee health and wellness, including our "Living Life Better" wellness initiative and our Employee Assistance Program (EAP). ( Learn more )
Diversity and inclusion
Having a diverse team of employees and an inclusive culture is vital for innovation. We are committed to fostering a globally diverse workforce and a companywide culture that encourages excellence, leadership, innovation and a balance between our personal and professional lives. ( Learn more )
Benefits
We offer a wide variety of competitive benefits, services and programs that provide our employees the resources to pursue their goals, both at work and in their personal lives. ( Learn more )
Developing our people
It’s our people who help us succeed in discovering first-in-class medicines that empower patients in their battles with serious diseases. To boost your career development, we foster a culture of continuous learning and give you every available opportunity to succeed. ( Learn more )
Workplace policies
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we do everything we can to ensure the highest level of quality, expertise, experience and fit at every level of our company. Expectations for compliance, standards and safety are established, including for:
Conduct and ethics strategy and management
Labor
Privacy protection
Security
Suppliers and contractors
Employee grievance procedures
( Learn more )

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company