
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation contributes to relief efforts in Sri Lanka
July 13, 2017
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation has a long history of responding quickly to help communities throughout the world in times of disaster.
In the same way Bristol Myers Squibb strives to provide lifesaving medicines to patients to help them prevail over serious diseases, the Foundation strives to promote health equity, and improve the health outcomes of populations disproportionately affected by serious diseases or natural disasters.
Sri Lanka recently suffered from devastating flooding, impacting more than 700,000 people and damaging up to 14,000 homes across four provinces. In an effort to support relief activity, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation donated $15,000 to the International Federation of Red Cross, which will be used to aid those displaced, injured or otherwise affected by the flooding.
“Often, the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation is the first to offer financial assistance to our relief partners,” says John Damonti, president, Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation. “We are working quickly to provide support to help get much-needed supplies and medical care to the people of Sri Lanka.”
Other donations made by the Foundation during 2017 up until this point include contributions of $15,000 to the Colombian Red Cross Society and the Peruvian Red Cross, and $13,000 to the Canadian Red Cross, all to address flooding relief efforts in those countries. Flooding across Quebec affected 1,900 homes in 126 towns and cities, while heavy rainfall in Colombia led to mudslides devastating the city of Mocoa. Flooding in Peru has impacted hundreds of thousands, destroying up to 12,000 homes.
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation is committed to helping communities in need, and each contribution is a new pledge to continue being a positive global citizen.
related content
Answering the urgent call for more hematologists in Africa >
PharmD resident takes journey of a lifetime >
Disaster relief information for patients >

March 17, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company