
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
BMS Foundation
Company increases support of Hurricane Harvey relief efforts in Texas
Up to $10M in Requested Medicines Plus $250K Donation to Relief Partners
August 30, 2017
If you are a patient taking a
Bristol Myers Squibb product
and have encountered a disruption in access to your prescription medication,
contact the Bristol Myers Squibb Customer Information Center
1-800-332-2056
Bristol-Myers Squibb and the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation have increased support of emergency relief efforts in southeastern Texas following Hurricane Harvey, the first major hurricane to make landfall in the U.S. in over a decade.
The remnants of Hurricane Harvey sent devastating floods pouring into Houston Sunday as rising water chased thousands of people to rooftops or higher ground. (AP Photo/David J. Phillip)
Bristol Myers Squibb is donating medicines with a wholesale value of $10 million to a network of the company’s of global relief partners to support their efforts in Texas. The first shipment of medicines is being sent today.
In addition, the Foundation is donating an additional $200,000, for a total of $250,000, to Americares, Direct Relief International and American Red Cross to provide desperately needed medical care and supplies for those in needs. The Foundation is also matching US and Puerto Rico employee donations to all eligible organizations working on the relief efforts.
“
Bristol Myers Squibb’s increased support will provide access to basic supplies and support relief partners in their work, as well as get medicines in the hands of patients who need them.
”
"As the devastation of Hurricane Harvey continues to unfold, we are increasing our support to meet the significant needs of the communities impacted,” says John Damonti, president, Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation. “Bristol Myers Squibb’s increased support will provide access to basic supplies and support relief partners in their work, as well as get medicines in the hands of patients who need them."
Bristol Myers Squibb and its disaster relief partners will continue to diligently monitor the situation to provide support as needed.
related content
Answering the urgent call for more hematologists in Africa >
PharmD resident takes journey of a lifetime >
Disaster relief information for patients >

March 17, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company