
News & Perspectives
Bristol Myers Squibb announces worldwide collaboration with Janssen to develop and commercialize potential next-generation cardiovascular therapy
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
April 16, 2018
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Bristol-Myers Squibb entered a worldwide collaboration with Janssen to develop and commercialize Bristol Myers Squibb’s Factor XIa inhibitor program, including BMS-986177, an investigational anticoagulant compound being studied for prevention and treatment of major thrombotic conditions.
Janssen will pay Bristol Myers Squibb an upfront sum along with potential development and regulatory milestone payments. The companies will share development costs and commercial profits and losses.  Additional terms of the agreement were not disclosed.
Bristol Myers Squibb has a strong heritage of pioneering research and development of novel assets to address areas of high unmet need for patients with serious cardiovascular conditions. The collaboration will leverage both companies’ resources and expertise to establish a broad development program across multiple indications.
To learn more about our agreement with Janssen, view the press release
here .
To learn more about Factor XIa (FXIa), view the FXIa factsheet
here .
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Collaboration
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Factor XIa Factsheet (PDF) >
Science
From numbers to knowledge: Unlocking the predictive power of data to accelerate transformative science >
Collaboration,
Leadership Perspectives,
Research and Development
News and Perspectives
Building a leading biopharma company >
Collaboration

January 24, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company