
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Collaboration
Building a leading biopharma company
Chairman and CEO Giovanni Caforio reflects on the combination of Bristol Myers Squibb and Celgene
November 20, 2019
Giovanni Caforio, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bristol Myers Squibb
Today, Bristol Myers Squibb and Celgene officially come together to build a leading biopharma company focused on transforming the lives of patients through science.
Giovanni Caforio, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bristol Myers Squibb
We are united in our mission to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines to help patients prevail over serious diseases — and we’re pioneering new treatments that give people back their lives. It is a momentous day that marks the beginning of a new chapter of opportunity and promise as we harness our collective groundbreaking science, global scale and agility, industry-leading commercialization capabilities and the passion and expertise of our people.
Achieving this milestone is a testament to the tireless work of our employees, the support of our partners and the belief of our shareholders in the value of our combined company.
“
We are united in our singular focus on patients. They are at the center of everything we do.
”
Our expanded R&D organization is poised to search for the next opportunity to reinvent medicine and how it’s delivered.
Our vision for the future is to work together to lead scientific innovation in the charge against cancer and other serious diseases with a goal to solve unmet medical needs. With an expanded, best-in-class R&D organization and a high-performing commercialization team, we are poised to leverage our global scale and agility to search for the next opportunity to reinvent medicine and how it’s delivered. We now have leading franchises in oncology, hematology, cardiovascular disease and immunology, as well as one of the most diverse and promising pipelines in the industry. Most importantly, we have highly talented and deeply passionate people to drive us forward.
We are united in our singular focus on patients. They are at the center of everything we do. Our patients inspire us to do more, reach further and work harder because we know they are waiting for the next innovative medicine.
I am confident that we will deliver more medicines to more patients and create value for our employees and shareholders as we strengthen our scientific leadership and evolve to a broad portfolio of marketed assets. I am excited about what we will accomplish together.
related content
From numbers to knowledge: Unlocking the predictive power of data to accelerate transformative science >
Becoming the Chairman of PhRMA >
Cambridge: A culture of collaboration >

March 01, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company