
Social progress
Bristol Myers Squibb is dedicated to being a good neighbor and a force for positive change around the world. We will always serve our mission to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Social progress
The Bristol Myers Squibb
Mission and Commitment , our
EHS policy
and our
Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics
drive our economic, social and environmental performance. We are committed to treating people fairly and with respect, and to protecting the
environment
and health and safety of our
employees , customers and the public.
Management Approach
We follow our established Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics to ensure we always conduct our company business in a legal, ethical and responsible manner.
Understand Our Management Approach >
Our Communities
We support programs, initiatives and organizations that help improve health in the communities in which we operate, live and work.
View Our Community Efforts >
Our Employees
We strive to provide jobs and equal opportunities for all employees and we strongly support ethical work practices.
Our Responsibilities To Our Employees >
Human Rights
We are committed to supporting the U.N. principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in all of our business activities.
Our Position Statement on Human Rights >
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
We help all people attain their highest level of health by strengthening healthcare worker knowledge and ability, integrating medical care and community-based supportive services, and mobilizing communities in the fight against disease.
See the Foundation programs >
Help Patients Pay for Medicines
Help with understanding prescription coverage and out-of-pocket costs
Learn More >
Early Patient Access >
Clinical Trials
In 2016, we invested $4.9 billion in R&D which included the discovery and development of new medicines for patients.
Learn More >
Find a Clinical Trial >
Disclosure Commitment >
Submit a Data Request >
Stakeholder Engagement
Strong relationships with a variety of stakeholder groups are essential to delivering medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
Our Stakeholder Groups & Examples >
Suppliers
In order to fulfill our mission to create the most innovative medicines, it is imperative that we obtain high quality goods and services from small and diverse suppliers.
Our Supplier Relationship Standards & Statements >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company