
Consortium of Christian Relief & Development Association (CCRDA), Ethiopia & Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
HIV
Consortium of Christian Relief & Development Association (CCRDA), Ethiopia
Consortium of Christian Relief & Development Association (CCRDA), Ethiopia
Our BMS Foundation will grant $223,098 over 24 months to enhance development effectiveness and professional competence of the civil societies in Ethiopia. This project will build upon the BMSF NGO Training Institute (NGOTI) Program in Ethiopia.
Need
In 2013, CCRDA was awarded a BMSF Secure the Future (STF) grant to pilot a Postgraduate Diploma in Development studies, based on the aims, objectives and model of the BMSF Non-Governmental Training Institute.
The Postgraduate Diploma (PGD) Program was the first of its kind in Ethiopia with the purpose of enhancing the capacities of Chief Scientist Offices (CSOs) to manage their development programs and projects at the required level of implementation. Seventy- four out of 100 students graduated.
An external evaluation conducted by STF Technical Assistance Program (TAP) found that CCRDA was a strategic and competent partner to implement the PGD NGOTI program based on its experience in training and resource capacity. The CCRDA PGD NGOTI program was tailored around existing gaps in relation to local development sector CSOs’ needs and training structure in the country. It highlighted the multi-sectoral partnerships approach that brought together partners with complementing competencies which helped make the implementation of the PGD NGOTI program successful. It found that the CCRDA PGD NGOTI program’s expectations of the participants were clear at admission stage, which reduced conflicts and uncertainty, although the absence of a project monitoring and evaluation plan post training compromises documentation of lessons learned and best practices as well as outcomes from the program. It recommended the introduction of the E-learning method of program delivery, but noted that it required good instructional technology systems to ensure that academic outputs are accomplished and the program is effective. Areas to be improved were skills transfer after training and graduation, which should be coordinated to benefit all NGOs. Additionally, the short training duration compromised the quality of skills and knowledge transfer after the training and thus there is a need to consolidate the positive aspects and to address the shortfall identified. This proposal aims to address these shortcomings and enable the program to be entrenched in the country.
CCRDA has also committed to building the human resource capacities of those BMSF-Secure the Future partners that are engaged in the health sector in Ethiopia with focus on the fight against cancer, TB and HIV and AIDS. CCRDA has also taken the responsibility of organizing a need-based, short-term, capacity-building package for BMSF development partners in Ethiopia.
Project
This project aims to build upon the previous BMSF NGOTI program in Ethiopia, which includes strengthening the partnership between CCRDA and Ambo University as a long-term home for the program. The project will also work to improve areas of the existing program by establishing a program advisory committee (PAC) for screening and selecting candidates and creating a collaboration between BMSF TAP Faculty, CCRDA’s academic team, and stakeholders in curriculum design review, research, project management and mentoring. Additionally, this project will equip CCRDA’s resource center with up-to-date program development and management reading materials.
To help ensure the effectiveness of the program, monitoring and evaluation will be integrated into all phases of this project, including monthly reports and quarterly teleconferences.
Partners
Ambo University
See where we are helping

September 18, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company