
Global Diversity and Inclusion Report 2021- Bristol Myers Squibb
In This Together:
Our Commitment to Global Diversity and Inclusion
Jump to:
Enabling Our Vision
CEO Letter
Enabling Our Vision
GD&I Strategy
Building a Diverse Workforce
Our Inclusion & Engagement Model
Shaping a Culture of Inclusion
Our Journey Ahead/EEO-1 Data
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are inspired by our vision of transforming patients’ lives through science. Our vision is made possible by the talent and passion of our workforce, including over 30,000 dedicated employees who bring unique skills, insights and passions to the work they do for patients every day. Bringing innovative medicines to patients depends on a workforce with diverse experiences, perspectives and personal backgrounds that reflect the patients and communities we serve around the world. As a science-driven company, we know it is through diversity of thought and experience that we can address the disease areas where patients are still waiting for treatments. We are proud of the journey we have initiated, and conscious that we still have much work to do to achieve this goal.
Our vision as a company is only possible if patients can have equal access to healthcare. We know the system doesn’t work for everyone, and the COVID-19 pandemic further highlighted disparities in access to treatment. Together, we can work to provide all patients with fair and just opportunities to achieve optimal health. We know we have a role to play in addressing health equity, and we are taking steps to contribute in areas where we can make a difference. Our commitments include a determined focus on addressing health disparities and increasing clinical trial diversity.
Even as we deepen our efforts to address disparities in healthcare, we understand the responsibility we have to address racial or societal inequity wherever we see it. Following the murder of George Floyd, Bristol Myers Squibb built upon our extensive experience in diversity and inclusion to amplify our efforts and make  strategic commitments  to accelerate diversity and inclusion. More specifically, our commitments include achieving gender parity at the executive level globally and doubling executive representation of Black/African American and Latino/Hispanic employees in the U.S. by the end of 2022.
“
Looking ahead, we are committed to continuing the important work we are doing to strengthen the diversity of our culture and increase health equity for better patient outcomes. Our patients deserve nothing less.
Giovanni Caforio, M.D. Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer
”
Commitments to Health Equity and Global D&I
Health Disparities
Clinical Trial Diversity
Supplier Diversity
Employee Giving
Workforce Representation
Additionally, we are devastated by the sharp increase in hate and discrimination directed against the Asian American Pacific Islander community in the U.S. over the last year. Bristol Myers Squibb condemns violence of any kind and we take seriously our continued responsibility to foster an inclusive environment in which our workforce feels safe, heard and valued.
This Global Diversity and Inclusion report, our first in a series of updates about our commitment to addressing diversity, gives an overview of the strategic approach and progress we have made towards becoming a diverse and inclusive company.
Throughout this report you will read stories that bring to life our efforts to create a culture that invites employees to bring their authentic selves to work. Ultimately, Bristol Myers Squibb could not have achieved progress without our workforce. An inclusive culture invites our workforce to speak up and contribute to how we move forward. I am confident we will continue to challenge ourselves to reach even farther to deliver for our patients. Looking ahead, we are committed to continuing the important work we are doing to strengthen the diversity of our culture and increase health equity for better patient outcomes. Our patients deserve nothing less.
Giovanni Caforio, M.D.
Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer
Download Report
Enabling our Vision >
Quick Links
Home
Patients & Caregivers
Healthcare Providers
Researchers & Partners
Investors
Job Seekers
News
Resources
Our Medicines
Life & Science Stories
About Us
UK-CA Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Follow Us
Legal Notice
Privacy Policy
Trademarks
Forward-Looking Statement
Worldwide Locations
Contact Us
February 09, 2021
© 2022
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

August 29, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company