
Global Diversity and Inclusion Report 2021- Bristol Myers Squibb
Jump to:
GD&I Strategy
Overview
CEO Letter
CIDO Letter
Patients and Communities
Colleagues
Business and Industry
Download full 2021 Global Inclusion & Diversity Report
A Letter from Giovanni Caforio, MD, Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer Emeritus
Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) is a science-based company, but first and foremost, we are a community of compassionate professionals devoted to helping improve the health of patients. We have an unwavering commitment to transforming patients’ lives through science in everything we do.
We do our best work because we have created an inclusive and diverse environment that ensures our more than 32,000 global employees can be their authentic selves at work. We know that through inclusion and diversity, we strengthen the foundation of BMS and unleash our collective ability to realize the promise and power of science for all.
While this report amplifies our progress in 2021, it also serves as a means to hold ourselves accountable. We are accelerating our efforts to drive scientific innovation to meet the evolving needs of patients worldwide and drive sustainable business performance.
The need for the development of innovative treatments for serious diseases has never been greater. That urgency is a big part of why we are unrelenting in our pursuit to narrow health disparities. We are acutely aware of the role that access to our medicines can play in improving the lives of patients and their families, which is why we are doing all we can to ensure greater health equity.
“
We do our best work because we have created an inclusive and diverse environment that ensures that our more than 32,000 global employees can be their authentic selves at work.
Giovanni Caforio, MD, Board Chair
”
Our focus on inclusion and diversity is at the very heart of who we are as a company. The importance of this mission is reflected in our bold Inclusion & Diversity and Health Equity Commitments, as well as my decision to elevate the role of Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer to my leadership team to strengthen the alignment with our business and growth strategy and drive more equitable and sustainable health outcomes around the world.
I am confident we will continue to grow and challenge ourselves to address and deliver on the unmet needs of patients and communities around the world. They deserve our very best, which is why we won’t rest until true health equity is a reality.
Giovanni Caforio, MD
Board Chair
PREVIOUS SECTION
< Overview
NEXT SECTION
CIDO letter >
You may also be interested in
Global Diversity & Inclusion Report 2020 >
Annual Report 2021 >
2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report >
Global Access Report >
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
Quick Links
Home
Patients & Caregivers
Healthcare Providers
Researchers & Partners
Investors
Job Seekers
News
Resources
Our Medicines
Life & Science Stories
About Us
UK-CA Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Follow Us
Legal Notice
Privacy Policy
Trademarks
Forward-Looking Statement
Worldwide Locations
Contact Us
February 09, 2021
© 2022
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

October 26, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company