
Our success stories
Building community in Trenton
About us
/
Responsibility
/
Supporting our communities
/
Our success stories
Bristol Myers Squibb has a long history of investing in our local communities and, as one of the largest employers in Mercer County, New Jersey, our company and employees are closely involved with a wide range of nonprofit organizations working to improve the quality of life in the City of Trenton, the county seat and state capital.
In 2012, Bristol Myers Squibb donated nearly $400,000 to two dozen nonprofit groups that help Trenton families improve their neighborhoods, promote health and wellness, and survive in a challenging economy. Our employees are making a difference, too, by serving as volunteers in local classrooms and soup kitchens, by painting, repairing and landscaping nonprofits’ facilities, and doing other volunteer tasks as part of our Helping Hands program.
Consistent with its focused approach to giving, Bristol Myers Squibb supports Trenton-area nonprofits in three strategic areas: promoting community health and wellness, improving the quality of education and youth achievement; and helping people in need.
Examples of Bristol Myers Squibb support for Trenton organizations in 2012
Promoting health and wellness
Millhill Child and Family Development Center
Supported
Medical Home Link , a program that screens children for medical problems and developmental disabilities, and coordinates care with doctors and other specialists in the region.
LifeTies
Supported programs at
Triad House
and
Rainbow House
to provide quality healthcare services to youth in crisis due to their sexual orientation, gender, abuse, neglect, homelessness or health concerns such as HIV/AIDS, lupus and diabetes.
National Junior Tennis and Learning (NJTL) of Trenton
Supported
Academic Creative Engagement , or ACE, a program designed to strengthen the character and enhance the lives of youths – and fight childhood obesity – by providing opportunities and instruction in nutrition, education and tennis. The program, which was developed in Trenton, is now being offered by NJTL chapters across the nation.
Crisis Ministry of Mercer County
Supported the
Hunger Prevention and Nutrition Education
program, which seeks to reduce health disparities among low-income members of the community by providing healthy foods and nutrition education via two food pantries in Trenton and another in Princeton.
Education and youth achievement
Boys and Girls Club of Trenton/Mercer County
Provided a range of financial and volunteer assistance for club programming including its afterschool programs, summer camp and a
Career Launch
program that helps middle and high school students prepare for responsible adulthood by focusing on the importance of education in career success, and developing goals for the future.
Trenton Public Schools
Partnered with Junior Achievement of New Jersey (JANJ) to teach children in several of the city’s elementary schools about economics, civics and personal responsibility, and help them understand the importance of education in preparing for a wide range of potential careers. The program also provides mentoring and leadership opportunities for Trenton Central High School students who participate in JANJ’s
High School Heroes
program.
Children’s Home Society of New Jersey
Supported
Project Impact , which provides afterschool enrichment in one of five city schools designated as “persistently dangerous” under the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001.
Mercer County Community College
Supported expansion of chemistry class offerings for students majoring in chemistry, biology, nursing, health sciences and medical laboratory technology at the college’s James Kerney Campus in Trenton by providing a grant for the purchase of laboratory and classroom equipment.
UrbanLink
Supported the Stony Brook-Millstone Watershed Association’s
UrbanLink
program, which enables 40 children in need from Trenton and surrounding urban communities to attend an educational summer camp at the Watershed’s rural nature reserve and organic farm. The program also provides an internship for a Trenton Central High School student who serves as camp counselor / mentor and can explore a potential career in environmental education.
Helping people in need
Rescue Mission of Trenton
Provided support for the Rescue Mission’s emergency shelter and other programs serving people struggling against hunger, homelessness, addiction and mental health disorders.
Catholic Charities Diocese of Trenton
Supported
Emergency and Community Services , a hunger and homelessness prevention program that serves low-income households, the homeless and those at-risk of homelessness in Trenton and surrounding urban communities.
Mercer Alliance to End Homelessness
Supported
Project Homeless Connect , which helps connect homeless people in Trenton and surrounding urban communities with organizations that provide housing and other services.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company