
News & Perspectives
The power of Giving Tuesday
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
November 27, 2023
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
This week in November holds a day with extra special impact: Giving Tuesday. It’s a day that not only represents generosity but also unity and collaboration.
At Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), we get to see every day the incredible impact that philanthropy can have on our broader communities and the world at large. Giving Tuesday is a chance to bring that big-hearted work to a whole new level.
A global movement of generosity
Giving Tuesday is a global movement dedicated to the act of giving. On this day, people from all walks of life come together to support causes they care about, be it education, healthcare, or environmental conservation, among countless other causes for good. It unites individuals, organizations and communities in a shared commitment to making the world a better place.
Giving is not merely an act of charity but an investment in a brighter future. It’s a day to join hands and contribute to causes that matter personally.
The ripple effect of giving
One of the most wonderful aspects of Giving Tuesday is the ripple effect it creates. When one person gives, it inspires others to do the same. At BMS, we see it all the time with our employees. It has been a milestone year for BMS’ Helping Hands volunteer program, which sources and shares opportunities for BMS teams to get involved to help those in need. In 2023 alone, over 4,355 BMS employees have volunteered more than 11,345 hours toward the program.
Giving is contagious. Through collective participation in Giving Tuesday, we can initiate a chain reaction like the one that has happened with Helping Hands.
Strengthening community bonds
Giving Tuesday is not just about giving money — it’s about building up our communities. It provides a unique opportunity to strengthen the bonds between our employees, partners and the causes we support.
Working together on Giving Tuesday fosters a sense of unity and shared purpose, an extension and celebration of the volunteer work BMS employees across the company do year-round: from employees from our Devens, MA, office serving lunch to veterans and their loved ones with Clear Path for Veterans, to our Translational Medicine team planting trees and clearing brush at the D&R Greenway in Princeton, NJ.
Giving Tuesday embodies the spirit of BMS: transforming lives. Regardless of who you work for or where you live, pause and look for a way to join this global initiative. You’ll be creating a ripple effect of giving and strengthening bonds that will continue to shape a brighter future for us all.
Giving back on Giving Tuesday is not a small act; it’s a pledge to make a lasting impact.
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Our Culture ,
People ,
Volunteerism
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >
Building a better future: Bristol Myers Squibb 2023 ESG report >
BMS named one of America's Most JUST companies >

November 27, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company