
Focus areas
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Our focus area
A healthier world is attainable and achievable, but access remains unequal. Patients, regardless of where they live, still encounter limited access to medicines. We believe in long-term sustainable global solutions to address health inequities and we’re developing new pathways and models to expand access to patients.
Increase awareness, engagement & influence
We support programs that educate under-resourced communities and engage people in healthy behaviors. Improving education and awareness helps at-risk patients have better health outcomes with early diagnosis and quality medical care.
Funding innovation
We invest in creative solutions, new approaches and inventive concepts to advance health equity, enabling our grantees to explore their effectiveness and develop data that demonstrates their value.
Driving positive health outcomes
We work across the full continuum of care from education to diagnosis to treatment to support our grantees’ efforts to give patients longer, healthier lives.
Advocating, sustaining and replicating change
We help our grantees to develop self-sustaining programs that create lasting positive change. We work with governments, civil society organizations, public institutions and private sector sponsors toward the elimination of barriers to improving health outcomes.
Our grantmaking approach
At the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, we believe that geographic, economic, racial or social circumstances should not determine health outcomes. We support that conviction with developing grantee relationships   focused on cancers, cardiovascular disease and immunologic disease in under-served communities and regions in the world that are less developed and heavily burdened. Currently, we are funding programs in the US, nine African countries, Brazil and China.
To learn more about our grantmaking process, contact us at
foundation@bms.com
Evolution of our impact
For decades, we at the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation and our grantees have improved health outcomes for underserved communities around the world. Relationships are at the core of what we do; they make it possible to create lasting change on a larger scale than we could ever accomplish alone. That’s why we support multifaceted endeavors with organizations serving these communities who are developing innovative, sustainable solutions to improve health outcomes and advance health equity.
Cancer
Although more people today are surviving cancer, the same is not true for everyone. We are working with grantees in areas where social stigmas, inadequate education, and lack of services contribute to increased mortality rates from cancers.
Learn more >
Immunology
We seek to improve delivery and utilization of specialty care for immunological disorders to underserved and under-resourced populations in the U.S.
Learn more >
Cardiology
We support programs that provide access to cardiology speciality medical care, social support and services for vulnerable and under-resourced populations in the U.S. to mitigate complications from cardiovascular disease.
Learn more >
Diversity in clinical trials
We aim to increase diversity of patients enrolled in clinical trials, expand the pipeline of diverse clinical trialists and ultimately enhance the development of therapeutics for all populations.
Learn more >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company