
Frequently asked questions
Researchers
The Thomas O. Daniel research incubator and collaboration center
Frequently asked questions
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
What is the Thomas O. Daniel Research Incubator and Collaboration Center?
The Thomas O. Daniel Research Incubator and Collaboration Center has 16,000 sq. ft. of shared and fully equipped lab facilities, offices, conference rooms and kitchenette located within the BMS Summit West Research facility in Summit, New Jersey to create an environment that can help medical innovators accelerate discoveries that may lead to life-enhancing medicines for patients in need.
Where are we currently located?
The center is located on the BMS Summit West Research facility in Summit, New Jersey.
What type of organizations are eligible to enter?
No limitations to the types of organizations that can apply for space.
Does the size and reach of my organization affect my chances of being selected?
No.
When is the application deadline and when will applicants be notified of status?
There is no deadline for application submission.
How can a company join?
We accept applications from entrepreneurs across all healthcare sectors, including those conducting research in innovative and disruptive technologies.
What will the selection criteria be?
The selection criteria will evaluate applications for:
Compelling and credible science and/or technology
Area of significant medical or market need
Developed business plan and management team
What is the selection process?
Prospective residents may submit an online application, which will include non-confidential information about your company. The application will be reviewed by an internal Company selection committee.
Who makes up the Advisory Board?
The Advisory Board, who will advise on best practices, serve as a connection to the NJ bio-ecosystem and as a connection to programs and lectures that we will host in the Incubator, is comprised of:
Lenzie Harcum, Program Manager, Technology and Life Sciences – NJEDA
Debbie Hart, Founding President and CEO – BioNJ
Cathy Scangarella, Senior Vice President – Choose New Jersey, Inc
Judith Sheft, Associate Vice President, Technology and Enterprise Development – New Jersey Institute of Technology
Vince Smeraglia, Executive Director, Strategic Alliance – Rutgers University
What are the lease terms?
Subject to the terms and conditions of the lease, the lease term will be one year, renewable for up to four additional one-year renewal terms.
What makes the Research Incubator and Collaboration Center unique?
Company's Incubator team can assist you with any further questions you may have. You can submit a question by visiting the  Contact us   page.

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company