
Greg Meyers - Bristol Myers Squibb
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Greg Meyers
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Greg Meyers
Executive Vice President, Chief Digital & Technology Officer
As executive vice president and chief digital and technology officer of Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), Greg Meyers leads the company’s efforts to coalesce digital technology alongside the company's transformational science to get more medicines, to more patients, faster and more impactfully.
In his role, Greg leads both the company’s Information Technology function, and its exploration and development of digital health tools which aim to enhance how patients are diagnosed, treated and monitored in the clinic. At a time of accelerating evolution in the healthcare space, Greg’s teams put leading-edge digital technologies at the service of BMS scientists, researchers and professionals to make the company stronger, nimbler and more productive in discovering, developing, and bringing medicines and digital health solutions to patients everywhere, efficiently and effectively.
“Digital innovation, computer and data science are the disciplines that will create breakthroughs in our understanding of biology and transform the way the life sciences industry operates at a fundamental level,” Greg said. “The state of artificial intelligence and machine learning in life sciences is similar to where we were with personal computers in the 1980s — we are just getting started and there is so much ahead to discover! Technology and digital capabilities will also catalyze our ways of working — from how we develop medicines, to how we improve patient experience, to how we run our core business operations. We are excited and ready to harness all of the possibilities that lie ahead.”
To lead this mission, Greg brings a deep and varied background as a successful P&L executive, champion for digital transformation, and change agent. Prior to joining BMS, Greg was group chief information and digital officer of Syngenta Group, a global leader in regenerative agriculture. Before that he held business and technology management positions at Motorola Solutions, Biogen, Novartis, Johnson & Johnson and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC).
A New Jersey native, Greg holds a bachelor’s degree in marketing from Rutgers University and a master of business administration from Temple University.
Updated: October 2023
PREVIOUS
< Sandra Leung
NEXT
Peter S. Paine III >

November 01, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company