
Myeloma
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from myeloma. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
Myeloma
Myeloma
Resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third-party sites.
Myeloma Resources
Myeloma, or Multiple Myeloma, is a type of blood cancer which forms in plasma cells.
American Cancer Society
A helpful overview of multiple myeloma.
Learn more >
International Myeloma Foundation
The International Myeloma Foundation conducts basic clinical and translational research to improve outcomes in myeloma, and to provide scientifically valid and critically appraised consensus opinions on the diagnosis and treatment of myeloma and related disorders. The IMF provides myeloma patient support and education though Patient & Family Seminars, an extensive library of print and digital resources and a trained InfoLine staff.
Learn more >
Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation
A patient-founded nonprofit organization, the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF) is a world-recognized pioneer in precision medicine and cancer research. The mission of the MMRF is to find a cure for multiple myeloma by relentlessly pursuing innovation that accelerates the development of next-generation treatments to extend the lives of patients.
Learn more >
Mayo Clinic
An overview of multiple myeloma with links to more in-depth information.
Learn more >
Myeloma Central
Myeloma Central is your hub for basic information about multiple myeloma. Our goal is to connect people affected by multiple myeloma with helpful information and resources.
Learn more >
Myeloma Advocacy Research Flashcard
Learn about the role of advocacy organizations in providing support for patients with cancer.
Download Flashcard
General Myeloma Resources
Cancer Care
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.
Mayo Clinic
Offers information about coping and support as well as in-depth information on other topics.
American Cancer Society
Answers to basic questions, and a list of topics to discuss with your doctor.

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company