
Bridging Cancer Care Initiative - Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
Cancer in U.S.
Bridging Cancer Care
Bridging Cancer Care
The Foundation’s
Bridging Cancer Care
initiative works to improve cancer patient outcomes through awareness, education, and access to care and support services.
2016 Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation Joint Grantee Summit
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s
Bridging Cancer Care
initiative hosted its inaugural Joint Grantee Summit to bring equitable health care to vulnerable populations.
Learn More >
Cancer
Each year, more than 8 million people die from cancer worldwide. Of those, one in five die from lung cancer, the world’s number one cancer killer. The
Bridging Cancer Care
initiative supports programs that address cancer care and needs of vulnerable populations in Central and Eastern Europe and the United States.
Cancer in Central and Eastern Europe
In Central and Eastern Europe, our initiative collaborates with partners in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and Russia to improve cancer nursing skills. To do this,
Bridging Cancer Care
works with nurses to increase education and awareness and to improve the cancer outcomes in their communities.
See how we are helping in Central and Eastern Europe.
Lung Cancer in the United States
While lung cancer prevalence in the U.S. has declined over the past decade, lung cancer still claims more lives than breast, colon, and prostate cancers combined. One in two people with lung cancer will die within a year of diagnosis and African American men are 20% more likely to develop lung cancer and have worse outcomes than white men.
In the U.S.,
Bridging Cancer Care
focuses on minority and underserved populations in the Southeast states with the highest lung cancer burden. The initiative works on innovative models of prevention, detection, and education while helping people with lung cancer access and navigate cancer care and support services.
Since Fall 2014, our initiative has committed $10.6 million to expand the scope of community-based resources and survivorship support programs to the underserved populations in the U.S.
See how we are helping in the United States.

September 18, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company