
Global Diveristy & Inclusion Report 2020: Shaping a Culture of Inclusion - Bristol Myers Squibb
Shaping a Culture of Inclusion
Jump to:
Shaping a Culture of Inclusion
CEO Letter
Enabling Our Vision
GD&I Strategy
Building a Diverse Workforce
Our Inclusion & Engagement Model
Shaping a Culture of Inclusion
Our Journey Ahead/EEO-1 Data
Our internal research 8
shows that employees who report working in an inclusive environment show a
97% favorability score
when asked if they would recommend Bristol Myers Squibb as a great place to work.
This understanding has led to the addition of inclusion as a company value, shared key performance indicators for managers directly tied to inclusion, and the implementation of
“Possibility Lives,”
a culture-change program based on neuroscience and organizational change best practices. While
95% 9   of our employees understand that diversity and inclusion drive business performance, and
83% 10
believe they can explain its positive impact, Possibility Lives explains how all of us create an inclusive workplace by practicing the right habits, at the right time, with clear tactical actions.
Working with the global PBRG leadership teams, we developed what we believe are the right habits and actions that can further our diversity and inclusion goals:
Encourage every voice
The science: Establishing shared goals, along with expressions of affirmation and interpersonal warmth, reliably increases the perception of “in group” status, leading to more efficient and productive cooperation, and greater engagement.
Explore new ideas
The science: Studies show that rejection, fear of evaluation and unfair treatment activate the same region of the brain as physical pain (the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex). This in turn reduces working memory, attention, and the capacity for creative insight.
Eliminate barriers
The science: Allowing time for reflection when deliberating can facilitate new insights or connections in the brain and strengthen intentions to act.
Possibility Lives
Possibility Lives is powered by a grassroots movement of over 1,000 individuals around the world. It has generated tens of thousands of internal social media posts and continues to evolve with the introduction of
Verified Inclusion Partners
in 2020. This group of employees are certified in the neuroscience of inclusion 11
and will be a huge asset as we look to advance our efforts in the area of belonging.
Possibility
Lives
Возможности становятся реальностью, когда мы устраняем ненужные барьеры.
Possibility
Lives
開啟無盡潛能 我們不斷開發新想法
Possibility
Lives
Aumentamos las posibilidades de la vida, cuando enriquecemos la diversidad.
Stephen F. Austin State University. “EEO Ethnicity and Race Categories ” https://www.sfasu.edu/docs/human-resources/sfa-new-employee-data-definitions.pdf
Mohr, T. “Why Women Don’t Apply for Jobs Unless They’re 100% Qualified.” Harvard Business Review (2014)
Deloitte. “Big demands and high expectations. The Deloitte Millennial Survey” (January 2014)  https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Documents/About-Deloitte/gx-dttl-2014-millennial-survey-report.pdf
Feder, M. “One Decade, One Million more STEM Graduates”. (December 18, 2012)  https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2012/12/18/one-decade-one-million-more-stem-graduates
National Science Board. “The State of U.S. Science and Engineering 2020”. (2020)  https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsb20201/executive-summary
UNCF Patterson Institute special tabulations of data from the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (2018 data collection year)
Association of American Medical Colleges. “Diversity in the Physician Workforce: Facts & Figures 2014”. (2014)
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2020 employee survey
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2019 employee survey
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2020 Global Diversity and Inclusion survey
Verified Inclusion Partner certification developed in partnership with the NeuroLeadership Institute
References [+]
References [-]
< Creating a Business-Linked Model for Inclusion and Engagement
Download Report
The Journey Ahead >
Quick Links
Home
Patients & Caregivers
Healthcare Providers
Researchers & Partners
Investors
Job Seekers
News
Resources
Our Medicines
Life & Science Stories
About Us
UK-CA Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Follow Us
Legal Notice
Privacy Policy
Trademarks
Forward-Looking Statement
Worldwide Locations
Contact Us
February 09, 2021
© 2022
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

August 29, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company