
Business & Industries
Jump to:
GD&I Strategy
Overview
CEO Letter
CIDO Letter
Patients and Communities
Colleagues
Business and Industry
Download full 2021 Global Inclusion & Diversity Report
2021 GLOBAL INCLUSION & DIVERSITY REPORT
Business and Industry
Inclusion and Diversity strengthen the I.D. of BMS to drive equitable advancement and outcomes for all.
“
“We know a culture of inclusion and belonging incubates and encourages creativity and innovation. As a leader in the commercialization of our products, I fully appreciate that the best way to get life-saving treatments to those in need is to speak to them directly. That thinking is another reason diversity in thought is so critical to our mission. Inclusion and diversity can’t be afterthoughts in our line of work and our rich legacy in addressing health disparities has improved outcomes for patients around the globe."
Chris Boerner, PhD, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercialization Officer
”
Addressing inequities in systems, policies and processes
$ 27.9 M
was awarded to 107 nonprofit organizations to improve diversity in clinical trials and equitable access to high-quality care for medically underserved patients and communities in the U.S.
In 2021, these 107 health equity grants focused on:
trusted disease awareness and education
patient supportive services and social determinants of health
access to high-quality care
diversity in clinical trials
diversity in the healthcare and biomedical research workforce
health disparities research
health equity policy advancement
BMS continues to deepen its investment globally in proven health equity solutions by supporting patient advocacy, community-based and faith-based organizations, medical societies and nonprofit healthcare institutions that together serve a wide range of communities across the world.
Building partnerships
that break down barriers to equitable health outcomes
We recognize that to drive a more just and equitable society, we must address health disparities and the social determinants of health in communities around the world. One step we are taking is activating sites in metro areas in the U.S. and encouraging more diverse clinical trial populations. We understand that change often happens slowly and that continued funding, education and resourcing is essential for sustainable change.
Total BMS U.S. spend on health equity commitments addressing health disparities from August 2020 to December 2021
$ 54.6 M
194    grants
Number of people reached with BMS health equity programs and services
619 K
People have been reached with programs and services
4 K
People have been trained
537
Educational resources and newly created platforms
85
Educational resources and platforms
119
Collaborations with other institutions/stakeholders
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation committed
$ 29.7 M
in multi-year grants across oncology, immunology and cardiovascular therapeutic areas (of which $12.8 million has been paid out via milestone payments)
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Empowers grantees to develop and test innovative solutions to  advance health equity and improve access to quality healthcare for patients
18,798
Vulnerable people served
6,767
Healthcare workers trained
372
Partnerships established
$ 13.5 M
Additional funding secured
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
Improving business and industry practices, processes and policies for the patients we serve
At BMS, we are reimagining and transforming business and industry practices, processes and policies to achieve equitable advancement and outcomes for all. We have a rich legacy of addressing health disparities and improving health outcomes for patients around the globe.
Industry recognition as an admired company across a spectrum of stakeholders
Our overarching commitment to our patients and communities, colleagues and business and industry has been recognized in innumerable ways. While we know there is more work to be done, we are honored to have been recognized for our achievements. These accolades confirm that we are moving in the right direction and making a meaningful difference. Our reputation and record in supporting women, veterans, racial and ethnically diverse populations, LGBTQ+ communities and people with disabilities sustainably and globally reflect our values and our passionate commitment to being more inclusive.
PREVIOUS SECTION
< Colleagues
NEXT SECTION
Overview>
You may also be interested in
Global Diversity & Inclusion Report 2020 >
Annual Report 2021 >
2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report >
Global Access Report >
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon

August 29, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company