
Our commitment to equal employment opportunity
We have a proactive and sustained commitment to promote diversity through affirmative action policies and other equal opportunity efforts.
About us
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
Our commitment to EEO
B ristol Myers Squibb is
dedicated to hiring a diverse workforce. Our reason for this is simple. In order to truly serve our patients and communities, we must rely on a workforce that reflects the marketplace we serve, can leverage personal and professional business experience to help us drive business results, and serve as the voice of Bristol Myers Squibb in community outreach events.
Recognizing people’s differences gives us access to a broad range of scientific and business insights, strengthens our competitive advantage, and helps us achieve our patient-centered mission most effectively and most efficiently.
Equal opportunity is a cornerstone of our company culture
Our culture of inclusion enables us to create a work environment where all are free to fully contribute and reach their maximum potential in a workplace that is respectful, welcoming to all individuals and free from harassment and discrimination.
Our employees as well as our vendors, partners and independent contractors have an impact on our EEO efforts, and share in the responsibility to uphold the legal requirements of EEO policies.
Affirmative action and equal employment opportunity policy statement >
EEO1 Consolidated Report 2023 >
Where we stand
We prohibit discrimination and harassment against any applicant, employee or third party (including vendors, consultants or customers) on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, citizenship, status as a protected veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, political affiliation, or any other characteristic protected by law.
Reasonable accommodations
We will also provide reasonable accommodations to otherwise qualified employees with known disabilities, absent undue hardship. Likewise, we will provide reasonable accommodations to employment candidates during the application process, absent undue hardship.
Policy violations
Our commitment to employees: Bristol Myers Squibb prohibits retaliation against any individual who has raised a good faith complaint of a violation of this policy or participated in an investigation into such complaints. If you believe our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy has been violated, report it to your manager. Alternatively, you may contact Human Resources.
Laying the foundation for long-term success
As our workforce continues to reflect the changing demographics of the communities where we do business and the patients we serve, so will we continue to focus on our efforts to ensure that diversity and inclusion are an integrated part of our long-term business strategy.
Learn More About Global Inclusion and Diversity >
View People & Business Resource Groups >

June 12, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company