
Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations - Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
Specialty Care
Specialty Care
The
Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations  initiative is addressing inequities in access to and utilization of specialty care services by medically underserved and vulnerable populations in the US. The goal of this national initiative is to catalyze sustainable improvement and expansion of specialty care service delivery in safety net settings to achieve more optimal and equitable outcomes for the people living with or at high risk for cancer, autoimmune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, lupus) and cardiovascular diseases (stroke, atrial fibrillation, and venous thromboembolism). Social determinants of health and weaknesses in healthcare systems affect the ability of poor and vulnerable populations to access and navigate specialty healthcare. These barriers can lead to patients either significantly delaying or discontinuing care or – worst of all – forgoing the care recommended for them.
Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations
Care Collaborations and Patient Support
The  Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations  initiative is addressing inequities in access to and utilization of cancer, HIV, autoimmune disease and cardiovascular disease specialty care services by medically underserved and vulnerable populations in the U.S.
Learn More >
Download Icon
Download Breaking Barriers to Specialty Care: Practical Ideas to Improve Health Equity and Reduce Cost  >
Download Icon
Download Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations Backgrounder  >
Cancer in the U.S.
The Foundation will collaborate with clinic- and community-based service providers to improve health outcomes among underserved populations with cancers.
Anne Arundel Medical Center
Anne Arundel Medical Center received a grant of $1.25 million for a three-year project to expand its Rapid Access Chest and Lung Assessment Program (RACLAP) to provide timely diagnosis and management of abnormal chest findings for residents living in Anne Arundel, Calvert and Prince George counties.
(Read More)
Association of Community Cancer Centers
The Association of Community Cancer Centers
received a grant of $4.27 million for a three year project to develop the Optimal Care Coordination Model, to improve the access and quality of care provided to Medicaid patients with lung cancer treated in community oncology practices.  (Read More)
Farmworker Justice
Farmworker Justice (FJ)
received a grant of $1,100,000 for a two-year project entitled
Unidos Eliminando Barreras para la Prevención de Cáncer de la Piel
(United Eliminating Barriers to Skin Cancer Prevention) to promote community integration and reduce impact of skin cancer among farmworkers and their families.  (Read More)
FSG
FSG, a mission-driven, non-profit consulting group received a grant of $1.35 million for a three year effort to develop and disseminate a foundational and engagement white paper for the initiative,  Breaking Barriers to Specialty Care: Practical Solutions to Improve Health Equity and Reduce Cost (June 2016)  This effort will also provide ongoing technical assistance to grantees to develop sustainability plans and robustly engage payers, health plans, health systems and quality organizations in designing and executing those plans.  (Read More)
Harvard Law School Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation
Harvard Law School Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation received a grant of $564,235 for a three-year effort to provide technical assistance in areas of policy recommendations on federal, state, and health plan levels to grantees under the Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations and Bridging Cancer Care US initiatives.  (Read More)
Jefferson Health
Jefferson Health, an integrated health system and safety net providers in Philadelphia, received a $2.9 million grant as part of a $20M four-year, citywide lung cancer effort to change the culture of lung cancer in the city by reducing the stigma, increasing health care provider knowledge and cultural competency, improving service flows, and connecting individuals at high risk for lung cancer with screening programs focusing on low income, African American, and recent Asian immigrant populations. Additional funding partners include the Korman Foundation, David and Esperanza Neu, The AmerisourceBergen Foundation,and The Free to Breath Foundation.  (Read More)
Maine Medical Center
Maine Medical Center will be the lead grantee of the Maine Lung Cancer Prevention and Screening (LungCAPS) Initiative, the first statewide multi-institutional and multidisciplinary approach. This $5 million, four-year grant will expand access to lung cancer prevention, early detection, and treatment services for vulnerable, rural, underserved patient populations in the entire state of Maine.  (Read More)
Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes)
Project ECHO (Extension for Community Healthcare Outcomes) was awarded $10 million for a multiyear initiative to bring high-quality care to cancer patients living in rural and underserved areas. This initiative uses telemedicine to pair doctors at NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Centers and academic medical centers with those in community hospitals and health delivery centers.  (Read More)
Ralph Lauren Cancer Center
Ralph Lauren Cancer Center, in partnership with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, received a grant of $604,582 for a two-year project to pilot a lung cancer screening and continuum of care access program for underserved and high risk populations in Harlem and northern Manhattan.  (Read More)
University of California Davis and HALO Clinic
University of California Davis, in a collaborative partnership with the Health and Life Organization will prospectively identify and follow Asian American patients across the cancer continuum to improve cancer prevention and control behaviors for lung, liver, GI and colorectal, cervical, and breast cancer and to create a New Patient Referral service between a FQHC-lookalike and NCI Comprehensive Cancer Center.  (Read More)
University of California Irvine Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center
The University of California Irvine Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center (CFCCC) will build a formal collaborative network as a hub/spoke model between community organizations, CalOptima primary and specialty care providers, and UCI’s specialists to provide more efficient and effective cancer care for low income MediCal Vietnamese, Korean, and Chinese patients in Orange County, California.  (Read More)
University of California San Francisco
University of California San Francisco will create an in-person and virtual-based patient navigation program to enhance the quality of cancer care for English, Chinese, and Vietnamese patients newly diagnosed with colorectal, liver, or lung cancer in the Greater San Francisco Bay Area.  (Read More)
University of Hawai’i
The University of Hawai’i will strengthen telehealth infrastructure, provide cancer education and case management through Project ECHO, and train community health workers to improve delivery of cancer services and outcomes for Native Hawaiians and the US Affiliated Pacific Island communities of Guam, American Samoa, and the US Commonwealth of the Northern Marina Islands.  (Read More)
Yale Cancer Center
Yale Cancer Center a NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, received a $1 million grant to build a Cancer Disparities Firewall to develop and implement bioinformatics tools, longitudinal patient navigation, clinical partnerships with community primary care providers and community health worker outreach to remove barriers to optimal cancer treatment and care in New Haven County targeting lung, breast, colorectal, and prostate cancer. Yale School of Public Health is a funding and collaborating partner and is contributing $116,734.  (Read More)
HIV in the U.S.
The CDC estimates that 1,201,100 persons ages 13 years and older are living with HIV in the U.S. The impact of HIV infection and AIDS is disproportionately higher for racial and ethnic minorities and people of lower income and education levels.
AIDS-related deaths occur when people who are infected do not receive the testing, treatment and care they need. Treatment can help people with HIV live longer, healthier lives and also greatly reduces the chances of passing HIV on to others. Although access to care has improved, African Americans, Hispanics, women and uninsured people with HIV remain less likely to have access to care and less likely to have optimal patterns of care.
The Washington AIDS Partnership
The Washington AIDS Partnership, working with the D.C. Department of Health HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis, STD and TB Administration (HAHSTA), received a grant of $684,711 for a three-year project to support the development of innovative, community-driven, mobile approaches to retention in HIV care in Washington, D.C. The MAC AIDS Fund is also a funding partner providing an additional $500,000 in grant support.
(Read More)
Cardiovascular Disease in the U.S.
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the U.S., inclusive of atrial fibrillation, stroke, and venous thromboembolism (VTE). Several disparities are observed in management of atrial fibrillation, the most common cardiac dysrhythmia, with many patients not receiving adequate measures for stroke prevention. For stroke, African Americans and Hispanics have been shown to have delayed arrivals to medical facilities and are less likely to have specialist consultations. Uninsured patients admitted with VTEs have higher Emergency Department (ED) recidivism and lower follow-up rates compared to insured patients. These differences in access to care, quality treatment and specialists often negatively impact patient health outcomes and drive up cost.
American Heart Association
The American Heart Association received $1.77 million for a three year project to launch Community Health in Action, a collective impact effort involving the City of Baltimore Department of Health and Office of Minority Health, Johns Hopkins Health System and the region’s Federally Qualified Health Centers aimed at improving access and quality of cardiovascular care for low-income and vulnerable populations affected by stroke, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, and venous thromboembolism.  (Read More)
Cooper Foundation (Urban Health Institute)
Cooper Foundation (Urban Health Institute) received $984,653 for a three year project to pilot a Metabolic and Cardiovascular Disease Control Program focused on vulnerable, complex and high utilizer patients with cardiovascular disease in Camden City and includes integrated care teams that allow for supervised task-shifting of aspects of specialty services to primary care providers, shared medical appointments, and utilization of health coaches to improve coordination of care and link social support for patients.  (Read More)
Institute of Healthcare Improvement (IHI)
IHI received $150,000 to kickstart the planning, coordination, execution and follow up of their
Pursuing Equity
initiative bringing 9 health system leaders committed to advancing health equity. Participants will focus both on reducing clinical disparities in 2 disease areas and improving non-clinical contributors (social determinants) that perpetuate inequality in their communities.
(Read More)
University of North Carolina (UNC) Health Care
UNC received $1.74 million for a 3 year project to establish a network of five atrial fibrillation transitions clinics across the state of North Carolina to help more patients presenting in emergency department, urgent care and primary care settings to avoid hospitalization through linkage and quick access to a specialty cardiologist/pharmacist team for management and patient education. ( Read More )

April 04, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company