
Global Diveristy & Inclusion Report 2020: Our Inclusion and Engagement Model - Bristol Myers Squibb
Creating a
Business-Linked
Model
for Inclusion
and Engagement
Jump to:
Global Diversity & Inclusion Report
CEO Letter
Enabling Our Vision
GD&I Strategy
Building a Diverse Workforce
Our Inclusion & Engagement Model
Shaping a Culture of Inclusion
Our Journey Ahead/EEO-1 Data
By applying a scientific approach to GD&I and making financial commitments, including talent investments, we see a lasting impact on employee recruitment and engagement, innovation and overall business performance.
Our internal data showed that enhancing inclusion and employee engagement required transforming our traditional employee resource groups to People and Business Resource Groups (PBRGs) to better inspire and equip our people to be true business leaders and drive business results and innovation.
As a result, in 2016, we invested in a new strategy directly linking the enterprise business strategy and objectives to individual PBRGs. Our model empowers members to be business leaders, adding value through the execution of business plans, accelerated leadership development for members and building the external reputation of our company.
To help drive our company strategy and amplify the value created by the PBRGs, we take a focused business-led approach toward the investment that we make in each PBRG business unit:
Full-Time Dedicated Leadership
Each PBRG has a dedicated full-time leader who is responsible for the three- year business strategy, execution and financial plans, membership growth and engagement, as well as the accelerated leadership development of its constituency base.
Leadership Team Accountability
Functioning as the board of directors for each PBRG, senior leaders are accountable for the governance of each PBRG as well as the career development of the full-time leads.
Business Performance and Governance
Each PBRG business plan is linked to the company strategy and objectives with performance oversight by the Bristol Myers Squibb Leadership Team and the Global Diversity & Inclusion Council. This empowers employee members to drive value and leverage their scientific and patient expertise, talent connections and community partnerships to meet the needs of our diverse patient base.
People and Business Resource Groups
PBRGs
offer our workforce proactive opportunities to support business priorities, foster employee engagement and shape a culture of inclusion. Coordinated by the company’s Global Diversity and Inclusion Center of Excellence, our workforce can connect, learn and contribute to one or more PBRG.
Bristol Myers Squibb Network of Women
Established 2004
Thalia Mingo
Global Lead, B-NOW
Differently-Abled Workplace Network
Established 2009
Tinamarie Duff
Global Lead, DAWN
PRIDE Alliance
Established 2003
Paul Shay
Global Lead, PRIDE ALLIANCE
Black Organization for Leadership and Development
Established 2001
Shamika Williams
Global Lead, BOLD
Organization for Latino Achievement
Established 2004
Leticia Ferri
Global Lead, OLA
Veterans Community Network
Established 2012
Kristin Jemison
Global Lead, VCN
Cultivating Leadership and Innovation for Millennials and Beyond
Established 2004
Adriana Zupa-Fernandez
Global Lead,CLIMB
Pan Asian Network
Established 2005
Jing Yang
Global Lead, PAN
PBRG membership has grown to over 12,500 members across 104 chapters in 43 countries since inception.
Related Articles
Perspectives on building a diverse workforce
Enhancing Cultural Intelligence to Deliver Healthcare Solutions >
Curbing the Spread of COVID-19 in Global Communities of Color >
Addressing the Needs of Our Current and Future Workforce >
Stephen F. Austin State University. “EEO Ethnicity and Race Categories ” https://www.sfasu.edu/docs/human-resources/sfa-new-employee-data-definitions.pdf
Mohr, T. “Why Women Don’t Apply for Jobs Unless They’re 100% Qualified.” Harvard Business Review (2014)
Deloitte. “Big demands and high expectations. The Deloitte Millennial Survey” (January 2014)  https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Documents/About-Deloitte/gx-dttl-2014-millennial-survey-report.pdf
Feder, M. “One Decade, One Million more STEM Graduates”. (December 18, 2012)  https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2012/12/18/one-decade-one-million-more-stem-graduates
National Science Board. “The State of U.S. Science and Engineering 2020”. (2020)  https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsb20201/executive-summary
UNCF Patterson Institute special tabulations of data from the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (2018 data collection year)
Association of American Medical Colleges. “Diversity in the Physician Workforce: Facts & Figures 2014”. (2014)
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2020 employee survey
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2019 employee survey
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2020 Global Diversity and Inclusion survey
Verified Inclusion Partner certification developed in partnership with the NeuroLeadership Institute
References [+]
References [-]
< Building a Diverse Workforce
Download Report
Shaping a Culture of Inclusion >
Quick Links
Home
Patients & Caregivers
Healthcare Providers
Researchers & Partners
Investors
Job Seekers
News
Resources
Our Medicines
Life & Science Stories
About Us
UK-CA Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (PDF)
Follow Us
Legal Notice
Privacy Policy
Trademarks
Forward-Looking Statement
Worldwide Locations
Contact Us
February 09, 2021
© 2022
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

August 29, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company