
Achievements
It's our commitment to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. The strides we've made and the culture we've created are both highly regarded and recognized.
About us
Our company
Achievements
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Over the years, Bristol Myers Squibb and its employees have received numerous distinguished awards and recognitions, including the National Medal of Technology, the Lasker Award for Medical Research and the Prix Galien Award.
Year after year, we've been hailed as being one of the best companies for veterans, a great place to work for scientists and an acknowledged industry leader in environment, health and safety.
Below is a selection of awards and recognitions we have received.
Bristol Myers Squibb engages with Ethisphere to perform an independent assessment of our Compliance and Ethics program on a biannual basis. The goal is to benchmark our program against other global companies and provide us with actionable recommendations on how to continue building and maintaining an ethical culture. Since 2012, Ethisphere has consecutively awarded us a
Compliance Leader Verification
designation
in recognition of our outstanding commitment to achieving a best-in-class ethics and compliance program.
Best for vets employers 2023
We’ve been recognized by the Military Times as a Best for Vets company. This designation is awarded to organizations based on recruiting practices aimed at current military members and veterans, retention and support programs, and a higher emphasis is given to employers who provide assistance and flexibility for individuals in the Guard and reserves.
2022 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year - Sustained Excellence Award
For the eighth year in a row, Bristol Myers Squibb has been named a U.S. EPA Energy Star Partner of the Year (ESPOY), earning the Sustained Excellence designation for the past four years. This award recognizes sustained leadership in improving the energy efficiency of the company’s facilities around the world.
Here are a few notable achievements from this year’s application:
Established new corporate goals to utilize 100% renewable electricity by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2040.
20 sites (nearly 100% of those eligible) are participating in the Energy Star Challenge for Industry, a global call to action for industrial sites to reduce their energy intensity by 10 percent within five years.
The Princeton Pike, NJ, site earned Energy Star certification in 2021 for the fourth year in a row, and Nassau Park, NJ, showed continued improvement in 2021 and is on track to earn certification soon. Additionally, Bristol Myers Squibb is the sole tenant of an Energy Star-certified facility in Tampa, FL.
Bristol Myers Squibb currently manages an on-site EV charging network consisting of 155 EV charging points and 500-plus subscribers across 10 U.S. sites.
Our on-site solar photovoltaic (PV) footprint includes PV arrays installed at three New Jersey locations, as well as locations in China and the United Kingdom, with a combined capacity of nearly 3.4 MW, which is equivalent to the energy needed to power about 300 U.S. homes.
Military friendly company
Employer
Bristol Myers Squibb is recognized as a Military Friendly Company by Viqtory Media, showcasing the most powerful and effective military programs in the workplace. The final results are determined by combining an organization’s survey scores with an assessment of the organization’s ability to meet minimum thresholds in six areas critical to success:  Hiring & Onboarding, Opportunity & Advancements, Culture & Commitment, Support & Retention, Policies & Compliance and Recruiting & Sourcing.
2021 best place to work for disability inclusion
For the third consecutive year, Bristol Myers Squibb earned a score of 100 from
Disability:IN
and named as one of the 2021 Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion. The Disability:IN Disability Equality Index ®
(DEI) recognizes companies that prioritize the inclusion of people with disabilities. The Index measures key performance indicators across organizational culture, leadership, accessibility, employment, community engagement, support services and supplier diversity. The DEI is a joint initiative of the American Association of People with Disabilities and Disability:IN.
100% score on the 2021 Corporate Equality Index (CEI)
For the 15th consecutive year, we received a perfect score of 100% on the 2021 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national review of workplace equality conducted annually by the
Human Rights Campaign Foundation , the nation’s largest lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) civil rights organization.
Read more >
2020 working mother 100 best companies
We are one of the
2020 Working Mother 100 Best Companies . The company was recognized for encouraging female advancement as well as the comprehensive array of benefits offered, including on-site childcare and flexible work options.
Military friendly company
Employer
Bristol Myers Squibb is recognized as a Military Friendly Company by Viqtory Media, showcasing the most powerful and effective military programs in the workplace. The final results are determined by combining an organization’s survey scores with an assessment of the organization’s ability to meet minimum thresholds in six areas critical to success:  Hiring & Onboarding, Opportunity & Advancements, Culture & Commitment, Support & Retention, Policies & Compliance and Recruiting & Sourcing.
Supplier Diversity Program
Bristol Myers Squibb is also recognized for its commitment to working with Veteran Owned Businesses by Viqtory Media. Military Friendly Supplier Diversity ratings are assessed through the evaluation of both public data about the organization and proprietary data gathered through its Military Friendly Supplier Diversity Program survey, which is now a part of the Military Friendly Companies survey. The annual, data-driven survey assessment is available at no cost to companies and federal contractors nationwide.
CEO cancer gold standard
The
CEO Roundtable on Cancer
has accredited Bristol Myers Squibb with the CEO Cancer Gold Standard™ recognizing our efforts to reduce the risk of cancer for employees and covered family members.
Read more >
Best Biotechnology product
Bristol Myers Squibb’s
OPDIVO® (nivolumab)
received the Prix Galien USA 2015 Award for Best Biotechnology Product. This represents the second award from Prix Galien USA given to Bristol Myers Squibb’s Immuno-Oncology portfolio.
YERVOY® (ipilimumab)
was awarded the prestigious Prix Galien USA prize for Best Biotechnology Product in 2012.
Read more >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company