
Employee engagement
We foster a strong sustainability culture that is core to our values and beliefs and our mission to transform patients’ lives through science.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Environmental sustainability
Employee engagement
Environmental sustainability is integrated into how we work every day. We foster a strong sustainability culture that is core to our values and beliefs and our mission to transform patients’ lives through science. To fuel that vital mindset, we arm employees with the tools, resources and training needed to ensure they think about the impact of their actions and incorporate responsible practices into their everyday lives.
Employee Go Green program
Go Green is a program that enables employee-based teams to strategically identify opportunities to make a difference by implementing programs and practices that help BMS reach its overall sustainability goals.
In 2022, BMS took an entirely new approach to our Go Green Initiative. Working closely with EOHSS leadership, we revamped the program with the goal of empowering employees to take actions to improve our footprint and its effect on human health. Today, we have 500+ members of Go Green who are actively:
Taking action to limit waste generation and increase circularity in our offices, labs and manufacturing locations, being mindful of our zero waste to landfill commitment.
Providing ongoing education sessions, resources, and workshops on key global and local sustainability topics.
Mobilizing and celebrating employee involvement in environmental sustainability efforts across our value chain like green chemistry, treasure hunts, packaging, logistics and transportation and more.
Participating in the Sustainability Calendar Challenge with monthly activities centered around biodiversity, waste reduction and wellness. In 2022, there were 10,000+ impressions in the Virgin Pulse App where these actions were captured.
Fostering partnerships at the intersection of human health and the environment like Grow-a-Row. BMS employees picked, rescued, and delivered 28,500 pounds (~112K servings) of free fresh produce to NJ residents in need.
Leveraging celebration days like Earth Day and World Recycling Day to catalyze local teams of employees to put measures in place to make a positive impact through their actions.
Under the Go Green Program, there are a number of initiatives to help drive and champion sustainability across BMS, including:
BMS Green Labs – and support for the My Green Lab program;
Green Workplace - and Green Office Checklist;
Events and Activities such as Earth Day and other climate-related programming.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company