
First Quarter 2022
Earnings highlights
First quarter 2022 results reflect double-digit growth of our in-line and new product portfolios driven by strong commercial execution.
Investors
Financial reporting
Quarterly results
Q1 2022 Earnings Highlights
TOTAL NET SALES
$ 11.6 B
YoY 5% increase; or 7% when
adjusted for foreign exchange
GAAP EPS
$ 0.59 *
Non-GAAP EPS **
$ 1.96
*
YoY 13% increase
*Includes net impact of ($0.10) per share for GAAP and non-GAAP EPS due to Acquired IPRD charges partially offset by licensing income.
Acquired IPRD refers to certain in-process research and development (“Acquired IPRD”) charges resulting from upfront or contingent milestone payments in connection with asset acquisitions or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights.
2022 Guidance 1
TOTAL NET SALES
In-line with
2021
GAAP EPS
$ 2.92 - 3.22 2
Non-GAAP EPS **
$ 7.44-7.74 2
1 The 2022 financial guidance excludes the impact of any potential future strategic acquisitions and divestitures, and any specified items that have not yet been identified and quantified. The financial guidance is subject to risks and uncertainties applicable to all forward-looking statements as described elsewhere in the document.
2
GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share include the net impact of ($0.10) from Acquired IPRD & licensing income incurred in Q1 2022 and an additional ($0.11) due to the buyout of future royalty obligation related to mavacamten that occurred in April 2022. Does not include estimate of Acquired IPRD & licensing income for remainder of 2022.
" We continue to execute against our strategic priorities, deliver
solid revenue and earnings growth and advance our product pipeline.
Thanks to our team's hard work and dedication, we achieved regulatory
approvals of two, new first-in-class medicines for patients living with
metastatic melanoma and symptomatic obstructive hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy, respectively. These milestone achievements, combined
with our promising product pipeline and strong financial flexibility,
provide a solid foundation that will enable us to deliver sustained
growth and long-term benefits for our patients. "
Giovanni Caforio, MD
Chairman of the Board
Delivering sustained growth and innovation
In-line Products performance:
$ 8.3 B
Revenue
YoY % Increase of 8%
Driven by:
New Product Portfolio performance:
$ 350 M
in Q1 2022 vs.
$ 161 M
in Q1 2021
Driven by:
Achieving key milestones
Received FDA approval for
Opdualag TM
(nivolumab and relatlimab-rmbw) for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age or older with unresectable or metastatic melanoma.
Opdualag
is a first-in-class, fixed-dose dual immunotherapy combination of the PD-1 inhibitor nivolumab and the LAG-3-blocking antibody relatlimab.
Received FDA approval of
Camzyos TM  (mavacamten), a first-in-class medicine for the treatment of obstructive HCM, a genetic heart condition where the heart muscle wall thickens, stiffens and makes it harder for the heart to pump oxygenated blood throughout the body.
Continued to expand
Opdivo ®
(nivolumab) with multiple regulatory approvals; including:
FDA approval of:
Opdivo
in combination with platinumdoublet chemotherapy for the treatment of certain patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer in the neoadjuvant setting.
EC approval of:
Opdivo
in combination with fluoropyrimidineand — platinum-based chemotherapy for first-line treatment of adult patients with unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma with tumor cell PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%.
Opdivo
for the adjuvant treatment of adults with high-risk muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma with PD-L1 expression ≥1%, marking the first immunotherapy approved for these patients.
Strong financial foundation
BMS maintains a consistent, balanced approach to capital allocation, focused on leveraging strong cash flow generation to invest in internal and external innovation, reducing debt and returning cash to shareholders.
Cash and Marketable Securities
$ 15 B
Cash Flow
from Operating Activities
$ 3.8 B
Returned Cash
to Shareholders
$ 6.2 B
Environmental, social and governance highlights
As a leading biopharma company, we understand our responsibility extends well beyond the discovery, development, and delivery of innovative medicines. Our evolving Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategy builds on a legacy of comprehensive and global sustainability efforts. To learn more about our priorities and goals, please visit our latest
ESG report .
Environment
Key priorities
Embracing environmental stewardship
Commitments
2024 – Science-based emissions reduction targets established
2030 – 100% renewable electricity
2040 –
Net neutral GHG
100% EV fleet
100% equitable water use
Zero waste to landfill
Social
Key priorities
Promoting product quality & safety
Cultivating diversity, equity & inclusion
Ensuring health equity, patient access & innovation
Commitments
2021 – ≥ 25% new clinical trial sites in diverse metro areas2022
2022 – Gender parity at executive level. 2X representation for Black/African American & Hispanic/Latino executives
2025 – $1B spend with diverse suppliers
Governance
Key priorities
Maintaining highest ethics, integrity & compliance
Upholding Board oversight & accountability
Commitments
Experienced & diverse Board
Board oversight of strategy & key enterprise risks
60% female & ethnically diverse directors
Shareholder rights
Regular shareholder engagement
Proxy access
Special meeting right (15%)
Transforming patients' lives through science™
Download 2022 Q1 Earnings Highlights Infographic (PDF)
*New Product Portfolio includes Reblozyl ®
(luspatercept-aamt), Inrebic ®
(fedratinib), Onureg ®
(azacitidine tablets), Zeposia ®
(ozanimod), Breyanzi ®
(lisocabtagene maraleucel) and Abecma® (idecabtagene vicleucel). Risk-adjusted sales figure also includes potential for relatlimab plus nivolumab fixed-dose combination, mavacamten and deucravacitinib.
**Non-GAAP EPS is not calculated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This Non-GAAP measure excludes certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found on our website at bms.com. See “Quarterly package of financial information” available on bms.com/investors for additional information on the limitations of non-GAAP financial measures and the list of specified items excluded from Non-GAAP EPS.
Materials on this inforgraphic may contain information about the company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained in this document should be evaluated together with the many risks and uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary statement and risk factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and except as otherwise required by applicable law, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise.

October 26, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company