
Lung cancer
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from lung cancer and other lung conditions. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
Lung cancer
Lung cancer
resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third party sites.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
BREATHE - Canadian Lung Association
Information to understand idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Learn more >
Lung cancer resources
It's the most common cancer worldwide, and the leading cause of cancer death in men and women in the United States. With early detection and treatment, many lung cancer deaths might be prevented.
American Cancer Society
One of the country's largest and oldest volunteer health organizations, dedicated to eliminating cancer.
Learn more >
Medline Plus
A collection of helpful information on the causes, symptoms, tests and treatments for lung cancer from the U.S. Library of Medicine.
Learn more >
G02 Foundation for Lung Cancer
GO2 Foundation for Lung Cancer transforms survivorship as the world’s leading organization dedicated to saving, extending and improving the lives of those vulnerable, at risk and diagnosed with lung cancer. We work to change the reality of living with lung cancer by ending stigma, increasing public and private research funding and ensuring access to care.
Learn more >
Lung Cancer Foundation of America (LCFA)
LCFA’s mission is the dramatic improvement in survivorship of lung cancer patients through the funding of transformative science. To accomplish this, LCFA works to raise both the funds and the national profile of lung cancer in order to substantially increase support of innovative and groundbreaking research efforts.
Learn more >
American Cancer Society
Planning for life with lung cancer.
Learn more >
LUNGevity
LUNGevity is committed to improving outcomes for people with lung cancer through research, education and support.
Learn more>
National Cancer Institute
The nation's leading agency for cancer research, providing information for patients and healthcare providers.
Learn more >
Lung Cancer Research Foundation
Charitable organization with resources and information for lung cancer patients and caregivers, researchers and supporters.
Learn more >
Mesothelioma resources
Medline Plus
A collection of helpful information on the causes, symptoms, tests and treatments for mesothelioma from the U.S. Library of Medicine.
Learn More >
General lung cancer resources
CancerCare
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.
National Cancer Institute
An overview on adjusting to cancer, dealing with self-image and support for caregivers.
Understanding Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy is one of the three main cancer treatments. Get a better understanding of how and when chemotherapy is given, and what you can expect.
Featured news & articles
See all articles
SEPTEMBER 25, 2020 / PEOPLE
Living with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) >
JULY 30, 2020 / SCIENCE
Approaching thoracic cancers from different angles >
MAY 31, 2017 / SCIENCE
An insidious and deadly cancer: Mesothelioma >

April 04, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company