
Areas of interest (AOI) & competitive research grants
Researchers
Independent research
Areas of interest & competitive research grants
We are currently accepting concepts for the following therapeutic areas. BMS periodically opens RFP Cycles across different therapeutic areas and the pre-concept submission periods will be posted below when available. We strongly encourage all applicants to begin the online application process early to allow adequate time for completion. For a submission to qualify for review, all information including any required uploads must be submitted through the application form prior to the specified end dates for the RFP Cycle.
Therapeutic Area and / or Compound
AOIs Posted on BMS.com
Pre-Concept Submission Period
Start Date
End date
Immunology – Sotyktu (Deucravacitinib) – Dermatology
Aug 26, 2024
Sept 23, 2024
Nov 14, 2024
Immunology – Sotyktu (Deucravacitinib) - Rheumatology
Aug 26, 2024
Sept 23, 2024
Nov 14, 2024
Therapeutic Area
Select Your Therapeutic Area
Disease Area
Select Your Disease Area
At this current time, there are no active Requests for Proposals that are open for submission. Please check the table above for the most up-to-date information on recent and upcoming open submission windows. Previews of Areas of Interest may be available below for your reference.
We are unable to retrieve active requests for proposals (RFPs) due to technical difficulties. Please check back in a few hours.
Please note that during an open RFP submission window, clicking on a link to submit your research idea will take you to the FastTrack Investigator Portal and you will receive a message that you are leaving BMS.com. This is part of the normal process.
If you are a potential investigator who is interested in seeking support to conduct independent research involving  Nivolumab  in Japan, Taiwan, or Korea,  click here
If you are a potential investigator who is interested in seeking support for independent research using Apixaban,  click here .
If you are a potential investigator who is interested in seeking support for non-clinical research using a BMS product,  click here
If you are a potential investigator who is interested in seeking support for independent research using one of our early pipeline assets,  click here
Please click on the product name to see the Full U.S. Prescribing Information for
ELIQUIS ® ,
EMPLICITI ™ ,
NULOJIX ® ,
OPDIVO ®,
ORENCIA ® ,
SPRYCEL ® ,
YERVOY ® , including
Boxed WARNINGS
for
ELIQUIS ® ,
NULOJIX ® , and
Boxed WARNING
for
YERVOY ®
regarding immune-mediated adverse reactions .
Begin a new application
Login >

April 26, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company