
Edgar Charles, MD - Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher: Edgar Charles
Edgar Charles, MD
Vice President, Global Program Lead, Immunology, Drug Development
Central New Jersey
Biography
Edgar Charles is a global program lead at Bristol Myers Squibb.  In this role, he leads the end-to-end development of one of BMS’ immunology assets. Previously, Edgar led the clinical development of fibrosis assets at BMS. Prior to joining Bristol Myers Squibb, Edgar spent three years at Merck Research Laboratories where he led emerging markets infectious disease strategy and served as a global clinical lead for hepatitis C therapies.
Before joining the industry, Edgar spent 10 years at Rockefeller University, where as an assistant professor he led a basic science and translational research program to understand the mechanisms of virus-induced autoimmunity in humans. Edgar’s research identified and functionally characterized a novel B cell subset responsible for human autoimmunity. During his time at Rockefeller University, he conducted post-doctoral virology and immunology research, and served as a member or chairman for several hospital committees. He also practiced medicine at Manhattan Veterans Administration Hospital and Bellevue Hospital.
Edgar received his MD, from University of Alabama School of Medicine, and later his MSc in clinical and translational investigation at Rockefeller University. He completed his residency in internal medicine and fellowship in infectious diseases at New York University School of Medicine. Edgar has published and presented in the fields of virology, immunology, infectious diseases, autoimmunity and fibrosis.
Interests and Expertise
What Edgar finds most exciting in his current role is the opportunity to work on everything from basic science to late-stage development; he enjoys contributing to the process by which theoretical ideas progress into practical medicines with the potential to help patients.
Edgar believes in paying forward the mentorship he received early in his career and aims to pass along the wisdom his mentors shared with him. In particular, Edgar enjoys supporting colleagues making the transition from academia to industry, as he did.
Outside of work, Edgar is most often outdoors hiking or camping with his family, including his three children.

September 18, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company