
About us
/
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
/
Global Inclusion & Diversity Report
/
Global Diveristy & Inclusion Report 2020: Creating a Business-Linked Model for Inclusion and Engagement
Inclusion and Engagement
Curbing the Spread of COVID-19 in Global Communities of Color
April 06, 2021
Early in the pandemic, it became clear that COVID-19 was disproportionately impacting communities of color.
The Black Organization for Leadership Development (BOLD) PBRG identified and acted on the need to bring health guidance to the Black/African American community. In partnership with Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation, BOLD created free, engaging, research-based and culturally relevant educational materials to empower families and children with tools to reduce the spread of COVID-19. This included the
20 Seconds or More
music video focused on the importance of proper hand washing. The video was performed by Hip Hop Public Health founding artist, rapper and community health advocate Doug E. Fresh. Medical oversight was provided by Hip Hop Public Health founder Dr. Olajide Williams. The video has been viewed more than 55 million times.
As the pandemic simultaneously impacted Latino/Hispanic communities, the Organization for Latino Achievement (OLA) PBRG also partnered with Hip Hop Public Health to conduct a bilingual campaign around a new creative expression for the cornerstone public health measures. OLA sponsored and shared the
20 Segundos o Más
video and education campaign components in communities across Latin America, including Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Venezuela, Colombia and Peru. The video, also led by Doug E. Fresh, made culturally relevant health information available to these communities. It included more than 30 community influencers and activists committed to making a difference through creative expression, civic duty and medicine. The video has received more than 155 million views.
Our Pan Asian Network (PAN) also addressed the effects COVID-19 brought on the Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) community in the U.S. Through our STEM initiative in Jersey City, NJ, PAN supported the transition to a virtual learning environment for high school students and organized community personal protective equipment donations for faculty and students.
< Creating a Business-Linked Model for Inclusion and Engagement
related content
Addressing the Needs of Our Current and Future Workforce >
Enhancing Cultural Intelligence to Deliver Healthcare Solutions >

April 27, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company