
Featured Researcher: Venkat Sethuraman – Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - Venkat Sethuraman
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Venkat Sethuraman, PhD, MBA
Senior Vice President, Global Biometrics and Data Sciences
Central New Jersey
Biography
Venkat Sethuraman, PhD, serves as the senior vice president of Global Biometrics and Data Sciences at Bristol Myers Squibb, where he oversees the data and digital strategy by utilizing data science, advanced clinical trial solutions and robust digital tools to accelerate our pipeline.
Venkat and his team are working at the forefront of how Bristol Myers Squibb is utilizing digital innovation to revolutionize drug development by harnessing the power of big data, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning approaches to power prediction from the earliest inception of our programs. In his role, Venkat is one of the driving minds behind the way Bristol Myers Squibb leverages advanced machine learning to accelerate early assets and clinical trials.
“Using data science, advanced clinical trial solutions and robust digital tools, we are accelerating our pipeline to deliver on the true potential of our science so that we can get therapies to patients who need them more quickly,” he said. “Harnessing the power of big data, AI and machine learning from the earliest inception of our programs, we are experimenting, testing and learning with the goal of achieving scale as quickly and sustainably as possible to develop better therapeutic molecules for patient subpopulations that will benefit most.”
Prior to Bristol Myers Squibb, Venkat was a partner at ZS, a management consulting firm, where he led R&D clinical development and operations. While there, he worked closely with R&D leaders on data-driven clinical decision-making, leveraging advanced analytics and data science.
Venkat received a PhD in statistics from Temple University and an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is an active member of the statistical and data science community and has served on the board of the Biopharmaceutical Section of the American Statistical Association.
Interests and Expertise
As a true believer in ensuring that our R&D community is representative of the communities we serve, Venkat dedicates his efforts in and out of work to paving the way for underrepresented communities in STEM. Outside of his day-to-day role, he serves on the board of directors for the Association for Women in Science (AWIS), the leading organization dedicated to driving excellence in STEM by achieving equity and full participation of women in all disciplines and across all employment sectors.

June 13, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company