
Cari Gallman - Bristol Myers Squibb
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Cari Gallman
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Cari Gallman
Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs
Cari Gallman, executive vice president, Corporate Affairs, is responsible for overseeing the company’s initiatives to protect, promote and enhance the Bristol Myers Squibb brand and reputation through strategic communications, government relations and policy, corporate social responsibility and patient advocacy. In addition, she currently serves as the executive sponsor of the Veterans Community Network (VCN) People and Business Resource Group.
Prior to this role, Cari served as chief compliance and ethics officer at BMS, where she championed our culture of Integrity, and drove efforts to ensure our operations are always conducted in compliance with ethical business practices, our Principles of Integrity, and laws and regulations in the global markets in which we operate.
“Corporate Affairs at BMS truly drives how and what we communicate. Whether to the media, government, patients or our people, when we tell the BMS story, it is purpose-driven and leads with our principles. As a function, we’re integrating more broadly across the enterprise and contributing to strategic priorities for BMS that help us achieve our mission of discovering, developing and delivering medicines to the patients who need them.”
Cari has almost two decades of combined experience in pharmaceutical law and compliance. She began her legal career in private practice representing pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers in government enforcement and regulatory matters. In her practice, she regularly advised companies on how to design and implement robust compliance policies to meet business objectives as well as legal needs. She joined the company in 2015 and assumed positions of increasing responsibility, including as head of the legal team supporting the Global Oncology Commercialization and Development organizations.
She earned a bachelor’s degree in political theory from Princeton University,
magna cum laude , and a JD from Harvard Law School.
Updated: February 2024
PREVIOUS
< Pamela Fisher
NEXT
Ben Hickey >

February 28, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company