
Our research in neuroscience
We are committed to addressing the needs of people living with neurological and psychiatric diseases by developing medicines that modify disease and treat symptoms to improve quality of life.
Researchers
Areas of focus
Our research in neuroscience
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Featured in neuroscience
Intended for healthcare professionals, scientific audiences and media.
Through our deep understanding of these complex conditions, we are developing medicines with the goal of helping individuals living with neurological and psychiatric conditions. Our efforts are focused on advancing therapies that slow progression and address symptoms of disease as we work to deliver medications with unique mechanisms of action to provide differentiated options for patients.
Taking back control: multiple sclerosis patients preserve body and mind >
Matt Labrecque's experience with multiple sclerosis >
What's the future of cell therapy at BMS? >
Bristol Myers Squibb has built an innovative neuroscience research and development model to bring transformational therapies to patients.
Our neuroscience research and development model combines internal expertise — which includes a strong emphasis on translational research, an in-house neuroimaging program, industry-leading development capabilities, and world-class clinical trial operations — with flexible external partnerships to identify and advance the most promising scientific innovation happening across the globe.
Our neuroscience focus areas
Alzheimer's disease
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
Schizophrenia
Alzheimer's disease
Alzheimer's disease is the leading form of dementia characterized by the progressive loss of cognitive function including thinking, remembering, and reasoning. Behavioral disturbances, such as psychosis, agitation and aggression are also common symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease that can become more prevalent with increased disease severity, resulting in a considerable burden on patients and their care-partners. A significant unmet need remains for additional effective therapies that manage symptoms and slow or prevent the progression of cognitive decline and the underlying disease.
Multiple sclerosis
MS is a disabling, unpredictable, neuroinflammatory disease in which the immune system attacks the protective myelin sheath (a white fatty substance) that covers the nerves. We are focused on delivering meaningful innovations to help preserve physical and cognitive function in people living with MS.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Multiple sclerosis fact sheet >
Music therapy and multiple sclerosis >
Multiple sclerosis and the brain >
Explore our stories
Taking back control: MS patients preserve body and mind >
Family, science, community: Matt Labrecque’s experience with MS >
Delivering meaningful innovations for the MS community >
Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia is a chronic, disabling mental illness that impacts how a person thinks, feels, and behaves. Signs and symptoms usually appear in early adulthood, oftentimes impacting developmental milestones such as finishing school, maintaining employment, and relationships. Medication and adherence to a treatment plan are critical to impact outcomes. While there are medications approved to treat schizophrenia, it can be a challenge for some individuals to find the medicine that works best for them. However, with the help of a dedicated care team it is possible for people living with schizophrenia to lead full lives.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Schizophrenia fact sheet  >
Explore our scientific resources
Learn more on our pipeline >
Request an independent research grant >
Search our scientific media resources >
Navigate to BMS Clinical Trials >
Meet our researchers
Learn more about the backgrounds, scientific pursuits and personal interests of members of our R&D team. These individuals are committed to pursuing Bristol Myers Squibb’s goal of discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines to patients.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team

May 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company