
Karin Shanahan - Bristol Myers Squibb
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Karin Shanahan
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Karin Shanahan
Executive Vice President, Global Product Development & Supply
Karin Shanahan oversees worldwide product development, manufacturing and supply for Bristol Myers Squibb as executive vice president, Global Product Development & Supply (GPS). GPS develops and produces active ingredients and drug products and delivers the company’s medicines throughout the world. The GPS team achieves this mission through a relentless focus on innovation, quality, safety and agility.
“I’m excited to return to Bristol Myers Squibb, where I began my career in the pharmaceutical industry. Though I’ve worn many hats in the industry since then, I was drawn back to Bristol Myers Squibb because of its unwavering dedication to quality and delivering innovative medicines to patients in need,” says Karin. “I am honored to help lead the integral GPS team as we navigate an everchanging landscape.”
Karin began her career in the pharmaceutical industry at Bristol Myers Squibb in corporate procurement, global supply chain, and global quality. Karin moved into manufacturing operations, leading two manufacturing sites in Billerica, MA, and Latina, Italy. After almost 14 years with Bristol Myers Squibb, Karin joined Becton-Dickenson as a leader of global operations, followed by Catalent Pharmaceuticals where she led global Biologics operations. In 2013, Karin joined Teva Pharmaceuticals as senior vice president and chief operating officer of global operations, where she led global Manufacturing Science & Technology (MS&T) and Network Strategy and a network of 25 sites across Europe and the Americas. Most recently, Karin served as senior vice president of Global Biologics & Sterile Operations at Merck.
Karin earned a bachelor’s degree in political science and international relations from Rutgers University and a master’s degree in jurisprudence (MSJ), pharmaceutical and device law, from Seton Hall Law School.
Updated: May 2022
PREVIOUS
< Amanda Poole

January 01, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company