
Cost basis calculator
Investors
Shareholder services
Cost basis calculator
Acquisition-related tax information for Celgene shareholders
Information including IRS Form 8937.
Learn more
As a service to our shareholders, we're making the NetBasis Cost Basis system available via a hyperlink below. For a fee, you may use NetBasis to calculate the cost basis for your Bristol Myers Squibb Company common stock, adjusted for any corporate actions or dividend reinvestments.
To use NetBasis, you will need your purchase/acquisition/sales dates and the number of shares acquired and/or sold on those dates. If you have any questions about using NetBasis, please call its 24/7 Customer Care Call Center at 1-888-80-BASIS (1-888-802-2747) or use the Live Web Chat service located on the Help button once you have logged onto the system.
If you select the NetBasis icon below, you will leave Bristol Myers Squibb Company’s website and will be redirected to the NetBasis website, a third-party, fee-based service. NetBasis is not affiliated with Bristol Myers Squibb Company, or its subsidiaries, and the content on the NetBasis website is not under Bristol Myers Squibb’s control. Bristol Myers Squibb Company is providing a link to NetBasis as a convenience for your information only. Bristol Myers Squibb Company shall have no liability for any information received from the NetBasis website.
Materials on this website may contain information about the Company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained on this website should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
In addition, any information contained on this website was current as of the date presented and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Consequently, the company will not update the information contained on the website and investors should not rely upon the information as current or accurate after the presentation date. The website may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for a particular quarterly period are available on the company’s website at
www.bms.com .​​​

April 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company