
Global Patient Week 2022 - Bristol Myers Squibb
Global Patient Week
Meet Ma
Ma was 67 years old when she was diagnosed with gastric cancer. It was recommended that Ma forego expensive treatment options, due to the incurable nature of her illness. But Ma’s family wouldn’t give up on her.
LIVING
This is the story of six people from around the world who have little
in common except their desire to bravely face disease and boldly continue living.
Watch the film and be inspired.
Now in its eighth year, Global Patient Week is an essential part of our culture — it unifies us and reignites our passion to do more for our patients. As the first biopharma to set aside time solely focused on the individuals we are working for each and every day, Global Patient Week is a pinnacle of our year-round vision to transform patients’ lives through science.
Meet Lorena >
Lorena lives with lung cancer and was told she only had six months to live. Determined to fight, Lorena tries to live a life filled with joy and gratitude for everything around her. Hear about her journey and her fight for healing.
Meet Tabitha >
Tabitha suffered a pulmonary embolism and feared for her life. Shockingly, her mother shares a similar story. Hear more about her journey and how she’s determined to live life to the fullest.
Meet Evris >
Evris has led a lifelong battle with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis and has always struggled to accept his conditions. Together with his husband, also a patient, Evris lives life as his authentic self and works to help other patients like him.
Meet Mary Jean >
Mary Jean lives with a type of hereditary heart condition known as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), that often keeps her from doing the things she loves.
Meet Severyne >
Severyne lives with a chronic cancer. While she knows her cancer may return, she chooses hope over fear. Hear what keeps her hopeful as she navigates life with this disease.
PATIENT PERSPECTIVES
Lifting up the patient voice>
Through our robust global patient advocacy programs, we listen to experts, advocates and, most importantly, our patients to weave their experiences into everything we do.
Mary Jean, Pennsylvania, United States
Leader perspectives
View all
LEADER PERSPECTIVES
Continuing our culture of putting patients first >
During Global Patient Week, our CEO shares his thoughts on how the culture of putting patients first is an integral part of everything we do.
SCIENCE & INNOVATION
Searching the globe for the next big deal for patients >
Elizabeth Mily, Executive Vice President of Strategy & Business Development shares her key questions and considerations when searching for the next innovation that can help bring a brighter future to patients around the world.
SCIENCE & INNOVATION
Using the power of technology to better serve our patients >
Greg Meyers, Executive Vice President, Chief Digital & Technology Officer, is passionate about the power of digital technologies to help make patients’ lives better.
SCIENCE & INNOVATION
Keep the wheels turning >
For this year’s Global Patient Week, our Executive Vice President, Global Product Development & Supply, shares her thoughts on how the manufacturing work her team does impacts lives around the world.
SCIENCE & INNOVATION
Faster, higher, stronger >
Rupert Vessey, Executive Vice President and President of Research and Early Development leads our pipeline initiatives that are crucial to the discovery, development, and deployment of medicines that help transform patients' lives.
SCIENCE & INNOVATION
From patient to physician: Trading places >
Patient. Physician. Passionate advocate for positive patient care. Estelle Vester-Blokland's experience as all three converge every day in her role as our senior vice president of Global Medical Affairs.
Subscribe to Our Stories
Sign up for email alerts
Subscribe
Moving forward. Together.
Survivorship Today
Explore what it means to live with cancer in a series of conversations with survivors from across the country.
Learn more >
Careers
We’re looking for people who want to change lives.  Join us as we transform patients’ lives through science.
Learn more >
Investors
Learn more about how we strive to produce sustained strong performance and shareholder value.
Learn more >

January 31, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company