
Head and neck cancer
Head and neck cancers include tumors that develop in and around the throat, larynx, nose, sinuses, and mouth.
Patients & caregivers
Head and neck cancer
Head and neck cancer
resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third-party sites.
Head & Neck Cancer Resources
The Oral Cancer Foundation (OCF)
OCF provides people with cancer and their caregivers access to a free, anonymous support group overseen by long-term survivors and oncology professionals. Their website provides information about the disease, treatment and current research.
Learn more
Head and Neck Cancer Alliance (HNCA)
HNCA is dedicated to saving lives and improving the quality of life for patients who have oral, head and neck cancer focusing on prevention, early detection, advocacy, patient programs, awareness, education and research.
Learn more
Support for People With Oral and Head and Neck Cancer (SPOHNC)
SPOHNC is dedicated to raising awareness and meeting the needs of oral, head and neck cancer patients through its resources and publications, which include support groups, a one-on-one matching program and educational materials vital to one’s journey with this disease.
Learn more
Cancer.net
An overview of head and neck cancer with links to more in-depth information.
Learn more
National Institutes of Health
A resource for both introductory and in-depth information on head and neck cancer.
Learn more
MedlinePlus
An overview with a variety of information about head and neck cancer.
Learn more
Head and neck cancer advocacy resource flashcard
Learn about the role of advocacy organizations in providing support for patients with cancer.
Download flashcard
General head & neck cancer resources
CancerCare
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.
Mayo Clinic
A resource offering information and advice for life after cancer treatment.
American Cancer Society
A good guide with information and questions to ask your doctor.
Treatment options
Cancer.net
A resource for information on different types of head and neck cancer treatment.
Medscape from WebMD
Provides detailed information for treatment stages, regimens and doses.
Current research
Cancer.net
Provides information and additional links for the latest research into head and neck cancer.
National Institutes of Health
A government site offering information on studies and drug approvals.

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company