
Overarching policies
The Bristol Myers Squibb sustainable development policy is explained in our Mission and Commitment, through which, we support economic progress, environmental stewardship and social responsibility.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Governance
Overarching policies
Social and economic-related policies
Through the Bristol Myers Squibb
Mission and Commitment , our company actively encourages social and economic progress. From fair wages and equitable treatment for employees to ethical work practices with our contractors and suppliers, our Commitment addresses a full range of sustainability issues.
Environment, health and safety policy
The worldwide environmental protection policy we developed in 1983 has been periodically reviewed and updated. Today it encompasses environmental, health and safety issues. Our
Environment, Health and Safety Policy
is applicable globally.
Voluntary standards
As part of our ongoing commitment to supporting society and the environment, we joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2010. The Global Compact is an initiative of corporate responsibility that focuses on 10 principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. To learn more, please see our  2020 U.N. Global Compact Communication on Progress .
Bristol Myers Squibb was one of the first companies in the world to self-declare that our companywide  EHS management system  meets or exceeds the requirements of ISO 14001, a voluntary, international specification for environmental management systems. In addition, some of our facilities have obtained third-party certification to the ISO standard.
The Cruiserath site in Ireland, participates in the International Responsible Care® program, the pharmaceutical industry’s global voluntary initiative under which companies work together to continuously improve their health, safety and environmental performance, and to communicate with stakeholders about their products and processes.
Bristol Myers Squibb reports our carbon emissions and water use through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP).
Bristol Myers Squibb partnered with the World Resources Institute and a group of large companies based in the northeast United States to help corporations address climate change. This Climate Northeast project united businesses from different economic sectors toward this common goal. A report on the partnership’s activities,  A Climate of Innovation: Northeast Business Action to Reduce Greenhouse Gases , is available to the public.
Bristol Myers Squibb endorsed the
2°C Challenge Communiqué
and the Cancun and Copenhagen Communiqués on Climate Change. These are initiatives of The Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change run by the University of Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company