
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Philanthropy
Bristol Myers Squibb Named to top Corporate Citizen list
For Ninth Consecutive Year
May 03, 2017
For the ninth consecutive year, Bristol Myers Squibb ranks in the top 20 of the
100 Best Corporate Citizens,
a leading benchmark for socially responsible investors and other stakeholders published by
Corporate Responsibility
magazine.
The
100 Best Corporate Citizens List
documents 260 data points of disclosure and performance measures — obtained from publicly available information in seven categories: environment, climate change, employee relations, human rights, governance, finance, and philanthropy & community support. The company rankings have been published since 1999.
“We work across our company every day to promote economic, social and environmental sustainability, commitments that are central to our mission and reflect our ongoing commitment to patients, employees and partners, the environment, and communities around the world,” said Carol Powell, global head of Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability.  “We are proud to be recognized as a leader in Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability, and will continue to strive to set the bar higher for ourselves, our partners and our suppliers.”
The company’s
Sustainability 2020 goals
serve as a plan for making a positive impact in areas relevant to our company and the communities we serve. These goals focus attention on areas of great importance for the future success of our company’s BioPharma strategy and for the future health and well-being of the global community, including R&D, access to medicines, our workforce, supply chain and environmental impact.  We established our first sustainability goals in 2000.
Consistent with our mission to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases, we are also helping to improve health outcomes for patients by partnering to strengthen health care infrastructure, services and education, and by increasing transparency about and access to information on our medicines.
Investors, customers, suppliers, regulators, employees and other stakeholders use the annual
100 Best Corporate Citizens
list to assess how publicly traded companies hold themselves accountable in these seven important categories while also enabling shareholders and other stakeholders to make more informed decisions.
A complete list of the
100 Best Corporate Citizens
is available at
www.thecro.com .

March 17, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company