
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Leadership Perspectives
A diverse conversation on issues shaping the U.S. health care industry
May 22, 2019
Johanna Mercier, President and Head of U.S. & Large Markets, Worldwide Commercial
“When I think about the changes we have seen in the industry over the last years, the main one that comes to mind is the speed of science and technology. This led to a more targeted way of reaching our customers, different ways of generating data and using these data to inform our approaches. Most importantly, it led to a greater empowerment and engagement of patients in their own care. Moving forward we will continue to see the impact of this acceleration.”- Johanna Mercier
This week, leaders from diverse industries spanning the pharmaceutical sector, health care insurers, government health care departments, genomics, personalized medicine, big data and analytics, patient advocacy gathered at the Financial Times U.S. Pharma and Biotech Summit in New York.
Johanna Mercier, president and head of U.S. & Large Markets, Worldwide Commercial, joined her colleague Mike Ryan, head of Worldwide Value, Access, Pricing and Health Economics and Outcomes Research, to discuss with participants the rapidly evolving landscape in health care and how Bristol Myers Squibb is looking to the future with patients at the forefront.
It’s a time of rapid change in health care. Science is advancing with the emergence of highly personalized therapies that offer the potential to extend and save lives. Entering new frontiers also introduces questions about the infrastructure needed to deliver innovative therapies to patients.  As the science advances, so too does the technology that gives patients and health care providers more data to manage their health. To that end, digital disruptors and therapeutics are changing the way health care is given as well as received.
Artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data and real-world evidence have triggered a significant evolution in how we conduct business and serve patients. Given the pace of change, we’re likely to see a lot of disruption to our current business models in the coming years.
“Artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data and real-world evidence have triggered a significant evolution in how we conduct business and serve patients. Given the pace of change, we’re likely to see a lot of disruption to our current business models in the coming years. More patients are taking charge of managing their own care,” Mercier noted.
While summit participants brought widely divergent vantage points on how to address the complexities and challenges facing the U.S. health care system, participants found common ground on two overarching points: the need for cross-sector collaboration, and the importance of balancing access and affordability with innovation.
Mike Ryan, Head of Worldwide HEOR, Access and Pricing
“Patient affordability and access has always been, and continues to be, a complex subject that involves the entire health care continuum,” Mike Ryan said. “From government agencies to pharmaceutical companies and everything in between, the one underlying and unifying motivation is patients. At Bristol Myers Squibb, we support policies that reduce unnecessary regulations, promote competition, modernize the drug discovery and development process and enable payers to negotiate innovative and flexible ways to pay for medicines.”
Bristol Myers Squibb was proud to take part in the conversation and to be a part of the solution. The challenges involved in providing access to medicines around the globe is complex and beyond the reach of any one entity to unilaterally address.  The company’s holds a long-standing record of creating and participating in collaborations and coalitions to address access and treatment challenges by bringing together governments, non-governmental organizations, civil society and industry.
“We’re working collaboratively to ensure patients have access to today’s medicines, and that we not lose sight that there is much more to be done; this will require continued innovation to address conditions where great unmet need still exists,” said Mercier.  “Events like this summit build common ground and consensus.  At BMS, we believe that partnering with multiple stakeholders is the best way to develop holistic solutions which improve care and ultimately patient’s lives”
related articles
Searching the globe for the next big deal for patients  >
Meet Tabitha >
Continuing our culture of putting patients first >

April 01, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company