
Transparency
About us
Responsibility
Transparency
We believe in providing an open environment to help build a foundation of trust and respect among our colleagues, health care professionals, patients, stockholders and the public. Making information available is important as we continue to operate our business to the highest standards, and in keeping with current laws and regulations.
We are firmly focused on
Our Mission , and take our responsibility for transparency seriously. Sustainability reporting is a clear example of an area in which we will continue to work to increase transparency as we show progress towards our
Sustainability 2020 Goals .
Clinical Trials
Making clinical trial information available to patients, investigators, researchers and physicians is a critical part of our commitment to transparency, scientific exchange and, ultimately, innovation.
View Clinical Trial Communication Commitment >
Corporate Giving
We support independent initiatives aimed at helping patients, building communities where we live and work and advancing health-care and scientific understanding, and we disclose which organizations we support.
Learn About Corporate Giving >
Support for European Patient Organizations
As part of our mission to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases, Bristol Myers Squibb and the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation support patient organizations across Europe through partnerships, grants and charitable contributions.
Learn More >
Interactions with Healthcare Providers
We are committed to supporting financial disclosure laws and codes as an extension of our own efforts to increase public awareness of the positive collaboration between industry and healthcare providers and healthcare organizations.
United States Transparency (The Sunshine Act) >
Global Transparency >
Policy and Advocacy Engagement and Political Contributions
We engage in government advocacy to help foster continued innovation. We contribute to political candidates and organizations that support our views on healthcare issues affecting the industry, when permitted by law.
View Policy Position >
Sustainability
For us, sustainability is working towards addressing unmet medical needs, increasing access to medicines and embracing our responsibility to care for our environment. We are committed to increasing transparency in our sustainability reporting.
View Sustainability Efforts >
Ethics and Compliance
Our values and principles guide every decision we make and commit us to the highest standard of moral and ethical behavior. We promise to act on our belief that the priceless ingredient of every product we make is the integrity of its maker.
Read About Our Principles >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company