
Worldwide locations
Bristol Myers Squibb has colleagues globally to support our business. Details from worldwide locations are listed below.
About us
Our company
Worldwide locations
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
United States - California
United States - Florida
United States - Mass.
United States - New Jersey
United States - New York
United States - Puerto Rico
United States - Washington
Canada - Montreal
China - Shanghai
India - Bangalore
Japan
Belgium - Braine-L'Alleud
England - Moreton
France - Rueil-Malmaison
Ireland - Cruiserath
Germany - Munich
Spain - Seville
United Kingdom
California, United States
Learn more BMS community in California >
Redwood City, California
The 256,000 square foot Bay Area research facility houses biologics drug discovery activities focused on antibody therapeutics.
The Redwood City location provides proximity to major biomedical research centers, such as the University of California Berkeley, University of California San Francisco and Stanford University.
Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D campus in Redwood City, California focuses on the complexities of the tumor microenvironment. Here, teams examine various aspects of the microenvironment, collaborating closely with discovery and translational scientists across the country to research how we can harness the body’s own immune system to better target tumors.
Learn More >
San Francisco, California
Bristol Myers Squibb’s San Francisco R&D site, located in the Mission Bay neighborhood, houses part of Bristol Myers Squibb’s early clinical development, medical and clinical scientist teams focused on hematology, oncology and cell therapy early phase trials. Physicians and clinical scientists here lead early clinical development programs for a diverse range of treatment modalities such as CAR T cells, T-cell engagers, monoclonal antibodies and small molecules. In addition, this site is home to translational scientists working in protein degradation and mechanisms of cancer resistance, and is connected with several Thematic Research Centers, predictive sciences and biosample operations.
San Diego, California
Bristol Myers Squibb’s San Diego R&D site, located in the heart of the local life sciences ecosystem just a few miles away from picturesque La Jolla, houses several unique and industry-leading capabilities. The site focuses on the exploration of novel biology and target concepts – such as protein degradation – and complex biologics, aiming to better understand and modulate the biological processes that lead to cancer, multiple sclerosis and other diseases with significant unmet needs.
Florida, United States
Tampa, Florida
Opened in January 2014, the 140,000 square foot Tampa Bay professional capability center provides knowledge-based capabilities and services across multiple disciplines and is part of the company’s continuous process improvement efforts.
The North America Capability Center explores ways to simplify processes and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.
Massachusetts, United States
Cambridge, Massachusetts
In Cambridge, the company’s R&D site at Kendall Square focuses on understanding the complexities of cancer resistance, with cross-functional scientific teams collaborating throughout the drug discovery and translational medicine continuum. An R&D site in nearby Alewife similarly focuses on discovery biology, translational science, and chemistry research as well as other important functions for a number of other diseases including various immune-mediated and fibrotic conditions.
Learn More >
Devens, Massachusetts
Located 45 miles northwest of Boston, the site totals 700,000 square feet on 89 acres and supports process development, clinical manufacturing and commercial manufacturing for biologics medicines.
The facility supports the production of ORENCIA ®
(abatacept), the company's biologic therapy for rheumatoid arthritis, and the immuno-oncology medicine EMPLICITI (elotuzumab).
New State-of-the-Art Cell Therapy Manufacturing Facility Under Construction to Expand Bristol Myers Squibb Global Footprint  >
New Jersey, United States
Hopewell, New Jersey
The 433-acre campus offers almost one million square feet of laboratories, office space and computing facilities.
The Hopewell location is a Research & Development facility focused on our key therapeutic areas.
Lawrenceville, New Jersey
The 276-acre campus serves as Bristol Myers Squibb's Research and Development headquarters. Here scientists discover and develop medicines in the areas of cancer, immunology, and cardiovascular diseases. The campus has 13 connected buildings totaling 1.5 million square feet.
Learn More >
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Purchased in 1905 when E.R. Squibb & Sons relocated operations from Brooklyn, New York, this campus has 40 buildings that total 1.9 million square feet on 96 acres. The site has evolved from a manufacturing site to become Bristol Myers Squibb's center for excellence for our therapeutic compounds.
Learn More >
Princeton Pike, New Jersey
The newly constructed 650,000-square foot facility opened November 2016 and houses employees from the Commercial teams, their commercialization and late-stage development partners from Research & Development and Global Manufacturing & Supply and their enabling function support teams.
Learn More >
Summit, New Jersey
Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D site in Summit, New Jersey focuses on nonclinical research and development, clinical pharmacology and early development and translational medicine for immunology, cardiovascular and fibrosis and hematology. Additionally, the Early Development Program Leadership organization, based here and in Princeton, New Jersey, collaborates across the organization in leading the development and implementation of compelling asset strategies across the portfolio.
West Windsor, New Jersey
The complex consists of one 3-story office building totaling more than 200,000 square feet.
The primary activities at this facility involve information management, global sourcing and accounting.
New York, United States
New York, NY
Our new space on the East Side of Manhattan houses executive and corporate offices, as well as the BMS Foundation.
Syracuse, New York
Syracuse is licensed for the manufacturing of four commercial biologics products: Opdivo, Nulojix, Yervoy and Empliciti.
The site was established in 1943 to answer the U.S. government’s call for large scale production of penicillin.
Puerto Rico, United States
Manati, Puerto Rico
This 460,000 square foot facility on 33 acres produces biologics medicines and Coumadin.
Humacao, Puerto Rico
Humacao facility is Oral solid dosage manufacturing site.  Products include Eliquis (cardiovascular), Glucophage (diabetes) and Sustiva (HIV).
Washington, United States
Seattle, Washington
Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D site in the South Lake Union neighborhood of Seattle, Washington is at the center of the Company’s discovery, pipeline development and translational research efforts focused on cell therapy and immuno-oncology. Within this Thematic Research Center, scientists examine immune effector cell-based therapies such as CAR T cells, T-cell engagers, monoclonal antibodies and small molecules in both blood cancers and solid tumors. In addition, researchers in Seattle conduct extensive exploratory translational studies to support clinical studies and inform asset development strategies.
The BMS R&D site in Seattle is part of BMS’s larger Seattle-area presence, which also includes employees working to develop, manufacture and commercialize cell therapies at a BMS cell therapy manufacturing plant in nearby Bothell, WA.
Montreal, Canada
Montreal, Canada
This regional office hosts administrative, Commercial, Regulatory, Clinical Operations, and Medical Affairs.
Shanghai, China
Shanghai, China
The facility is located in the Minghang district of Shanghai, covering 58,000 square meters.  The Shanghai pharmaceutical plant manufactures antibiotics, cardiovascular medicines, analgesics and metabolics.
Bangalore, India
Bangalore, India
The Biocon Bristol Myers Squibb Research & Development Center (BBRC) is a collaboration between Bristol Myers Squibb and Syngene International, a Biocon- group company, and is based in Bangalore, India. Fully operational since 2009, the site is involved in Target Identification, Lead Discovery and Lead Optimization all the way through to early stage Pharmaceutical Development and Clinical Biomarkers R&D.
Learn More >
Japan
Aichi, Japan
The Aichi plant focuses on primary and secondary packaging and is approximately 12,170 square meters on a site area of 23,520 square meters.
Tokyo, Japan
Since 1995, Bristol Myers Squibb offices in Nishi-Shinjuku have included Medical Affairs, Pharmacovigilance, Regulatory, Clinical Strategies, Clinical Operations, Data Management and Early Development.
Bristol Myers Squibb has occupied 76,000 square feet of an office building in Nishi-Shinjuku, Tokyo.
Learn More >
Braine-L'Alleud, Belgium
Braine-L'Alleud, Belgium
Bristol Myers Squibb's European R&D operations have been based here since 2003, focusing on Global Regulatory Sciences and various R&D clinical operations.
Employees work in eight buildings located in an office park set in the countryside.
Learn More >
Moreton, England
Moreton, England
The 11.2 acre research facility is located on the Wirral Peninsula between Chester and Liverpool. Scientists here investigate new medicinal compounds and how they can be manufactured efficiently on a commercial scale.
Learn More >
Rueil-Malmaison, France
Rueil-Malmaison, France
Bristol Myers Squibb's European and French headquarters located 45 minutes from downtown Paris. The building, opened in August 2002, was designed by internationally recognized architect Jean-Paul Viguier.
In addition to the commercial focus of the site, the building houses employees in R&D, focused on Global Development and Medical Affairs.
Learn More >
Cruiserath, Ireland
Cruiserath, Ireland
Our newly-constructed biologics manufacturing facility for the production of immuno-oncology medicines. Regulatory approval for commercial production is targeted for late 2019.
Munich, Germany
Munich, Germany
Our Munich office consists largely of Commercial and Regulatory operations.
Seville, Spain
Seville, Spain
Bristol Myers Squibb's Center for Innovation and Translational Research Europe (CITRE) R&D site in Seville, Spain is a capability center that brings together teams from our global Informatics and Predictive Sciences, early clinical development and Thematic Research Center organizations to contribute to Bristol Myers Squibb research efforts worldwide.
The site houses computational, clinical and biology research teams as well as dedicated computational research infrastructure and laboratory facilities. Alongside onsite research, the center serves to expand our innovation, collaboration and talent development footprint in Europe.
United Kingdom
Chester, United Kingdom
Opened in 2014, the European Capabilities Center (ECC) is made up of colleagues from across Europe and provides support in Finance, Human Resources, R&D and more.
Moreton, United Kingdom
The 12-acre site at Moreton is located between Chester and Liverpool and focuses on R&D (including chemical & synthetic development, drug product science & technology, analytical strategy operations and clinical supply operations).
It celebrated 50 years of research and development in 2017.
Uxbridge, United Kingdom
The 66,000 square foot Uxbridge site is headquarters for the UK & Ireland commercial business.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company