
Shipping & logistics
Our distribution and logistics team is responsible for working with outsourced providers to reduce waste, conserve energy and minimize carbon emissions. We put considerable effort into supporting our supply chain’s reliability, agility and sustainability, which are also key criteria when appraising our vendors’ performance.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Environmental sustainability
Shipping & logistics
Shipping & logistics
Whether ground, air or ocean, the mode of transport that we choose for our products plays an important role in how we operate sustainably. This could mean transitioning from air to ocean to cut carbon emissions by reducing the number of shipments per annum or working with suppliers who can provide more efficient ground transportation via electric fleet vehicles. We also look for ways to consolidate product packaging, to reduce packaging by moving to durable solutions (i.e. reusable and/or recyclable solutions), implementing twin-deck vehicles to move high volume shipments and identifying more effective and efficient shipping routes.
Many of our products are shipped in temperature-controlled containers. For instance, our biology-based therapies require cold-chain transport and must remain at a constant temperature (2–8 degrees C) from the time they leave the manufacturing facility to when they reach the patient. For shipments placed via air, we look to ship these almost exclusively in battery-operated refrigerated pallet-sized containers which are reusable.
When we have smaller, parcel-sized shipments, we use passive refrigeration in insulated shipper boxes with gel-pack inserts. Currently, we use reusable parcel containers to distribute cold chain products in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand and aim to expand their use globally where possible.
Ultimately, bolstering our supply chain’s reliability, agility and sustainability is a priority for us, and we will continue to work with vendors who share our commitment to reducing our transportation-related environmental impacts.
Our approach
Our teams are continually looking for ways to reduce our transportation-related environmental impacts by working collaboratively with our suppliers and finding innovative new solutions to shipping and logistics. We meet regularly with our vendors and conduct ideation sessions to brainstorm new ways of working. These collaborative strategy sessions have led to new innovative technologies and programs which have seen positive results in emissions reduction, resource efficiencies and financial savings.
Partnerships
We have a valued contingent of trusted suppliers and vendors that we work with. Through these partnerships, we have driven a number of pilots, program and system improvements and waste to landfill initiatives. Some of the areas we are currently investigating include biofuels for trucking, reusable thermal blankets for shipping and use of reusable shipper boxes.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company