
Michael May, PhD - Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher - Michael May
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Michael May, PhD
Countrywide Medical Director, Germany
Global Medical
Biography
Michael May, PhD currently serves as the countrywide medical director for Bristol Myers Squibb in Germany. Since joining the company more than 13 years ago, Michael has worked in a variety of roles across disease areas, overseeing medical operations in oncology, immunoscience and virology.
In his current role, Michael leads the German medical organization, overseeing local medical strategy and execution. His main focus is to drive local clinical research to expedite access to innovative therapies for patients, by collaborating with leading scientific institutions and academic networks.
In addition to his contributions locally within the German organization, Michael also works to foster close relationships with other Bristol Myers Squibb sites, including those across Europe and the U.S., finding continuity in work to speed scientific discovery.
“We work closely to foster synergies between sites in order to create new ideas that can help us work better together to innovate for patients with high unmet need,” says May.
Michael also serves as a board member of the Bristol Myers Squibb Immuno-Oncology Foundation in Germany.
Michael has extensive experience in cancer research. Prior to joining Bristol Myers Squibb, he spent time at other life sciences companies in Germany such as Pharmacia and Pfizer. He completed his undergraduate degree in biology from the University of Erlangen and went on to earn his PhD from its Institute for Clinical and Molecular Virology before completing his post-doctoral work at the Institute of Genetics and Molecular and Cellular Biology in Strasbourg, France.
Interests and Expertise
When Michael isn’t at work, he enjoys spending time with his family, as he typically spends his workdays in other parts of the country, reducing the amount of time he’s close to home.
“My weekends are important to me because it gives us as a family the chance to do something together – spending time with them is so important to me.”
He and his family can often be found playing a variety of sports, hiking in the Alps or taking in a show at the theater.

May 03, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company