
People
Meet the scientists behind the Touch that Transforms
Their skill, commitment to helping patients, and passion make it possible
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
January 03, 2022
Our stories
/
People
By Rupert Vessey, president of Research and Early Development
By Rupert Vessey, president of Research and Early Development
One of the best parts of my job at Bristol Myers Squibb is enjoying a front row seat to the incredible work, research and innovation being conducted in our labs to transform the lives of patients through science.
The work our teams do is remarkable. Our dedicated scientists are helping usher in the next generation of industry-leading medicines across oncology, immunology, hematology and cardiovascular diseases. They are focused on transforming patients’ lives by pioneering dual immunotherapy combinations that may combat more types of cancer, identify new endpoints to better assess cognitive health along a patient’s MS journey, and progress our robust pipeline of more than 50 compounds in development across more than 40 diseases, and 20 first-in-class molecules.
I see many familiar faces featured on Bristol Myers Squibb channels showing the
Touch that Transforms
- a celebration of the transformative power of science, featuring the real BMS scientists who make it possible. It looks at both what we do in our labs each day, and the reason why.
I invite you to take a minute to meet some of the BMS scientists, below, who are featured and learn more about their incredible work on behalf of patients.
Meet Elizabeth Jurica >
Meet Melissa Yarde-Chinn >
Meet Murali Dhar >
Meet Stephanie Boehm >
Elizabeth Jurica – a childhood goal achieved
Elizabeth Jurica is a senior principal scientist trained in synthetic organic chemistry and working in discovery chemistry.
A longtime piano player, Elizabeth considered focusing on music before ultimately pursuing chemistry, where she could realize a lifelong goal of helping patients. Scientific role models from childhood provided strong inspiration, including a high school chemistry teacher, and her own parents, a PhD in education who taught high school science and math and an analytical chemist with a master’s degree.
“As a child, I had the goal of becoming a physician to help patients improve their health,” Jurica said. “However, as my education progressed, I fell in love with organic chemistry and my path deviated from my original plans. I still have found a way to use my problem-solving skills and innovation to have an impact on patients through medicinal chemistry with the goal of discovering new therapies for patients in need.”
In her work at Bristol Myers Squibb, Jurica consistently finds inspiration and motivation from the new challenges chemistry provides.
“It is the best feeling when you overcome a significant compound design issue or solve a problem that has been plaguing your chemistry, it never gets old,” she says. “Seeing my team’s science progress from an idea on paper to having the desired effect in a disease model is extremely gratifying.”
Jurica was recently featured in The
Touch that Transforms
campaign, which showcases real Bristol Myers Squibb scientists and the work they do each day on behalf of patients. In the campaign image, she’s holding a reaction “pie-block” that contains pressure relief reaction vials used to safely set up small-scale heated chemical reactions.
“I love talking about science and drug discovery with friends and family, so it’s been great to give them a glimpse into our work in a chemistry lab through The T ouch that Transforms
campaign,” said Jurica. “I work with some of the most dedicated and innovative scientists in the industry. We continue to persevere because we believe in the science and discovering new therapies to help patients. There is always more to be done!”
Interests and expertise
Jurica finds inspiration at Bristol Myers Squibb not only through the patients served by her work, but from the collaborative spirit she enjoys with colleagues, particularly when working together to solve the seemingly daunting challenges presented by drug discovery research.
“My daily interactions with my colleagues inspire me as we learn and develop the science as a team,” she said.
A life-long music lover, Jurica still enjoys playing the piano when not at work and is also a volunteer supporting Bristol Myers Squibb’s STEMgirls workshops.
Melissa Yarde-Chinn - championing women in science
Melissa Yarde-Chinn is a principal scientist with the Lead Discovery and Optimization team and has been with Bristol Myers Squibb since 2001.
“I was fresh out of college when I started at Bristol Myers Squibb. I remember my hiring manager told me,
‘you will have a career here at Bristol Myers Squibb, not just a job, ’” said Yarde-Chinn. “These words have resonated with me for the past 20 years. I not only have a career, but I love my job. I couldn’t imagine myself working at any other company.”
Seeing first-hand how her science directly impacts patients’ lives who need it most is a continued source of inspiration for Yarde-Chinn.
“Knowing my work helps develop medicines that make a difference in someone else’s life means the world to me,” she said. “What touches me most is when Bristol Myers Squibb creates opportunities to honor those we help around the world. I’m so proud of Global Patient Week each year, where we get to hear and see first-hand the very people we’ve impacted and helped.”
For her, Bristol Myers Squibb’s mission of transforming patients’ lives through science means giving those patients “another chance to live and enjoy each day to the fullest.”
“Everyone should know the care, commitment and thoughtfulness that Bristol Myers Squibb and its employees put into our work every day. We are truly dedicated to making a difference in patients’ lives,” Yarde-Chinn said.
Yarde-Chinn was recently featured in
The Touch that Transforms
campaign, which showcases real Bristol Myers Squibb scientists and the work they do on behalf of patients. She says she was proud to be a part of it because it shows inclusion, colleagues working together toward the same cause, and because she gets to be a role model for other aspiring women scientists.
“I want other young girls to know and see that being a scientist is attainable,” Yarde-Chinn said. “I have two daughters who love science, so this is the perfect example to follow your dreams.”
Interests and expertise
Yarde-Chinn is motivated by the close-knit relationships she enjoys with her colleagues at Bristol Myers Squibb, and knowing their collective work positively impacts the lives of patients and their families.
“I want patients to know that we are all in this together, as a big family, working hard every day to help transform lives,” she said.
Outside of Bristol Myers Squibb, Yarde-Chinn enjoys dancing and Zumba to relieve stress and energize her for the next day’s work.
Murali Dhar – a noble mission
Murali Dhar, scientific executive director chemistry platforms, has been at Bristol Myers Squibb for 23 years.
Dhar oversees the medicinal chemistry department at the Biocon-Bristol Myers Squibb R&D Center, also referred to as BBRC. There, he leads a team of around 100 medicinal chemists with the primary objective of discovering new drug candidates across multiple therapeutic areas.
Through his father’s work as a doctor, growing up, Dhar saw first-hand how medicines can cure diseases and improve the quality of patients’ lives.
“This was the reason why I decided to become a medicinal chemist/discovery scientist, since discovering drugs to transform patients’ lives, is a very noble mission,” Dhar said.
Dhar was recently featured in
The Touch that Transforms
campaign, which showcases real Bristol Myers Squibb scientists and the work they do each day on behalf of patients.
“What I liked most about participating in the new campaign was the opportunity to tell the world about the impactful research carried out at Bristol Myers Squibb,” he said.
Dhar is quick to point out that while he is featured in the campaign, he’s representative of his team and the broader Bristol Myers Squibb workforce. “My colleagues are some of the most dedicated, hardworking, intelligent, focused, caring, and empathetic individuals I know. I am proud to be representing this enormous group of talented folks,” he said.
In addition to posing with a separating funnel for his campaign photo, Dhar also drew the structures of the Bristol Myers Squibb compounds seen on the whiteboard in
The
Touch that Transforms
video .
Interests and expertise
Along with developing drugs that improve patients’ lives, Dhar takes pride in opportunities to mentor the next generation of scientists and researchers.
“Mentoring colleagues at Bristol Myers Squibb and seeing them grow, achieve their objectives and reach their highest potential, are some of the proudest moments I’ve had while working at Bristol Myers Squibb,” he said.
Outside of work, Dhar enjoys western and Indian classical music, as well as studying and collecting postage stamps related to pre-independence India and science.
Stephanie Boehm – a passion for helping patients
Principal Scientist, Stephanie Boehm, has been with Bristol Myers Squibb since graduating college in 2007.
Boehm focuses on pre-clinical drug discovery and currently works within Bristol Myers Squibb’s fibrosis department where she is helping to develop their small molecule pipeline through in vivo and in vitro research.
In her nearly 15 years at Bristol Myers Squibb, Boehm still sees herself growing as a scientist, and her passion for the work is fueled by opportunities for continuous learning.
“Throughout changes in priorities, strategies and disease focus areas—I’ve never stopped learning,” Boehm said. “Each day is an opportunity to develop and validate new models, examine new research, and collaborate alongside Bristol Myers colleagues and partners to work through challenging problems. All of those experiences contribute to my passion for the work I do in developing new medications for patients.”
Boehm’s work in the lab has directly helped to advance compounds into the clinic focused on treating diabetes, lung and liver disease, as well as inform clinical trial study designs.
“Every time a compound I’ve worked on progresses into the clinic—I’m extremely proud, and feel closer to helping individuals,” said Boehm.
Boehm was recently featured in
The Touch that Transforms
campaign, which showcases real Bristol Myers Squibb scientists and the work they do each day on behalf of patients.
Interests and expertise
For Boehm, it’s important for people and patients to know about the individual scientists behind the medications being developed.
“We care about making a positive impact on patients’ lives through the high-quality work we do,” she said.
When not at Bristol Myers Squibb, Boehm enjoys traveling and experiencing new cultures and cuisines. She’s also a volunteer foster parent for puppies raised to be guide dogs for the blind and visually impaired.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Related content
Our Corporate Brand >
We will never give up our search to discover, develop, and deliver the next generation of innovative medicines that transform patients’ lives. That's the touch that transforms.

September 18, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company