
Featured Researcher: Alison Fitch - Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher: Alison Fitch
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Alison Fitch
Director, Scientific Operations and Strategy, Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy Thematic Research Center
Seattle, WA
Biography
Alison is director of Strategy and Operations for both the Cancer Immunology and Cell Therapy Thematic Research Center and Seattle sites, overseeing a team that manages resource needs like space planning and budgets.
Alison also leads inclusion and diversity-focused STEM education and workforce engagement for the company in Washington and is a member of the STEM Council. When early efforts identified a need to engage with the Seattle community more directly, Alison felt that it was only natural to start giving back to the community that helped develop future generations of scientists by supporting STEM education outreach. Alison and her strong cadre of colleagues, interested in making a difference in STEM education, are consistently innovating how Bristol Myers Squibb can reach as many young people as possible, especially those who have been historically underrepresented in the scientific field.
In partnership with local institutions, including the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, she has organized career development networking events for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers since 2019. In 2020, called to action by the educational impacts of the pandemic, she and Wilbert Copeland of Informatics & Predictive Sciences partnered on a
project
with the Pacific Science Center to create a series of educational videos.
Alison joined Bristol Myers Squibb by way of Celgene in 2019. At Celgene, Alison oversaw external collaborations and led operations for the Seattle R&D site. Prior to Celgene, Alison worked at Theraclone Sciences, now OncoResponse, for nearly 10 years, where she negotiated contracts and developed international alliance relationships around the world, as well as having lab management responsibilities that she also held at Amgen and Abgenix.
Alison earned her MBA from Simon Fraser University with a specialization in the business of biotech; a bachelor’s degree in cell biology and genetics from the University of British Columbia and holds a patent for a novel composition of an antibody.
Interests and Expertise
Alison volunteers her time on the board of the Seattle chapter of the Association for Women in Science (AWIS). She is a reviewer of the nominees for the annual Seattle STEM awards and supports the banquet event. She also volunteers for the Washington State Opportunity Scholarship program as an essay reviewer and student mentor.
In her spare time, she is learning to restore vintage and antique watches.
“The access I’ve had to high-quality STEM education has provided the great privilege of working in a very novel area of cancer therapeutic development. I dedicate time to STEM outreach to be able to pay that opportunity forward to the next generation of scientists who will solve problems, some of which we cannot yet envision,” she said. “The enthusiasm of both the students and our staff in our grassroots engagement projects is so energizing. I get so much more back than I give.”

February 23, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company