
Science
Investigating combinations in cancer research
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
May 31, 2018
Our stories
/
Science
The tumor microenvironment contains multiple immune pathways which can be manipulated by a tumor to evade immune response. In most cases, tumors use more than one immune suppression mechanism, or develop new mechanisms over the course of the disease, which means we will need a variety of different approaches to address a patient’s specific tumor biology.
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are investigating how potentially complementary signaling pathways interact and, through our research, are exploring ways to leverage the complex tumor microenvironment to reset and optimize anti-tumor immunity.
Explore the articles below to learn more about the science behind the tumor microenvironment and the immune system. Also read about the potential of combinations in cancer therapy and the need for partnering with collaborators in order to advance the science as quickly as possible.
A Combination Approach: Growing the Oncology Pipeline Through Innovation and Collaboration
Every day, we are working with partners to uncover important information about the complex tumor microenvironment and its intersection with the immune system, which then informs our deliberately-built pipeline.
Read More >
Igniting the Tumor Microenvironment
Scientists continue to research ways to harness the immune system to tackle cancer through multiple mechanisms and pathways.
Learn More >
Interactive I-O Pathway Wheel
We're investigating specific categories of immune mechanisms that can help restore the body's natural ability to fight cancer, as well as complementary signaling pathways that may help activate an antitumor immune response.
Learn More >
The I-O Quest
Exploring the research behind why some people respond to immunotherapy and others don’t.
Learn More >
Leveraging Bioinformatics
Hear from Joe Szustakowski, head of translational bioinformatics, about how his team uses raw data and distills that into a useful biological signals.
Right treatment, right patient, right time
Through our research into the tumor microenvironment, we are learning more about how a patient’s dynamic tumor biology can be used as a guide for treatment decisions throughout his or her cancer journey. We continue to investigate the role of  PD-L1  , tumor mutational burden , and gene signatures of inflammation, and other potentially predictive biomarkers – both tumor and peripheral biomarkers – to better inform and predict the benefit of current and future approaches. Additionally, our teams continue to evaluate potential diagnostic tools to help identify those biomarkers in patients leveraging less-invasive methods such as liquid biopsy.
To learn more about how Bristol Myers Squibb is exploring the research behind why some people respond to immunotherapy and others do not,  click here .
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Immunotherapy
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Revelations in oncology: Reflecting on the past and charting the future in cancer research >
One woman's account of living with ulcerative colitis >
Doing R&D "differently" to transform treatment for serious diseases >

January 24, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company