
Our communities
As a Biopharma company, we look for opportunities to support programs, initiatives and organizations that help improve health in the communities in which we operate, live and work.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Social progress
Our communities
Every day we strive to:
Improve access to essential Bristol Myers Squibb medicines in developed and developing countries
Increase philanthropic activities around the world
Manage our products responsibly
Our employees also volunteer their time and expertise to help improve the quality of life in the communities where they live and work. In 2017, over 1400 employees participated in 65 volunteer events coordinated through our
Helping Hands
program, in which employees spend all or part of a paid workday supporting a local charitable cause with their colleagues.
Additional information on the company's philanthropic initiatives can be found in the
Responsibility
section of our website.
Other ways we serve our communities and the world:
Patient assistance programs
We are committed to helping our patients in need. If you need help paying for your prescription medicine, you may be eligible for assistance.
Clinical trials
Our mission is to bring new and innovative medicines to patients in need. But this is dependent on our demonstration of safety and efficacy, and a favorable benefit-risk relationship through systematic testing of patients who volunteer to participate in our studies.
Health disparities
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation promotes health equity and seeks to improve the health outcomes of populations disproportionately affected by serious diseases.
Product responsibility
Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to providing the highest quality products and ensuring product integrity. We provide consumers and distributors with information necessary to ensure the safe use, transportation, storage and disposal of our products. Our Regulatory Affairs Department follows policy development, collects data on labeling and ensures compliance with regulations.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company