
News & Perspectives
Resilience, innovation and hope
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
September 20, 2021
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
By Ann M. Powell, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
This week marks Bristol Myers Squibb’s seventh annual  Global Patient Week , one of my favorite times of the year. Patients are the heart of what we do, driving us to work smarter and faster to improve their lives in the face of serious illness. Global Patient Week celebrates that work, bringing it to life with real faces, voices and personal stories. It’s a core part of our culture and who we are.
Empathy and the drive to innovate
Culture is shaped by values, actions and strong beliefs; stated simply - it’s how we feel when we come to work, whether in a lab, an office, with a customer or on the plant floor. It’s the compassion we feel for Winter, a patient with an immune-mediated disease hoping for a transformative treatment. It’s the pride in Atiba, a cancer survivor and BMS employee who was able to grow her career while undergoing treatment. It’s the drive to help Eduardo, who survived a rare cancer diagnosis.
Hearing directly from patients does two important things. First, it connects all of us, regardless of our role or location, to our vision to transform patients’ lives through science. Second, it sparks innovation through empathy. When we listen to a patient’s experience in a clinical trial or hear the perspective of a caregiver, we gain valuable insights that drive innovation.  Their stories  remind us of the transformative impact we’re having on people around the world and fuel us to create even more breakthroughs.
Focus on diversity, equity & inclusion
Ann M. Powell, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
As we focus on patients,
our commitments  to diversity and inclusion are top of mind. We’re exploring critical healthcare topics like the importance of diversity in clinical trial design and recruitment, to help ensure that trial participants are truly representative of the patients who suffer from the condition under study. We’re also looking at how we can reach more patients who are on the margins of healthcare, giving them access to the resources and care they need.
In our own workforce, we’re committed to achieving gender parity at the executive level globally and doubling executive representation of Black and Latinx employees in the U.S. by the end of 2022. Our workforce should reflect the patients we serve, with diverse perspectives and informed decision-making.
“
Global Patient Week makes me stand a little taller, reminding me that the frontlines of transformative science and innovation is a pretty exciting place to be.
Ann M. Powell, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
”
Rising to the occasion
Global Patient Week also gives us the opportunity to celebrate the ways we’ve shown up for patients and each other. The pandemic has reinvented the way we live and work. It’s tested our resilience and ability to face adversity. And we rose to the occasion, embracing change by:
Expanding patient support programs to help eligible unemployed patients in the U.S. who have lost their health insurance due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Expanding flexible work, family care paid leave and our U.S. military leave plan to meet the unique needs of our workforce and their families.
Creating more opportunities for employees to give back through programs like Move for Minutes and  Coast 2 Coast 4 Cancer .
I’m always proud to share that I work at BMS. Global Patient Week makes me stand a little taller, reminding me that the frontlines of transformative science and innovation is a pretty exciting place to be as we continue to help patients achieve better outcomes and live better lives.
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Leadership Perspectives ,
Our Culture
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >
Building a better future: Bristol Myers Squibb 2023 ESG report >
BMS named one of America's Most JUST companies >

October 05, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company