
Privacy Notice Center - Bristol Myers Squibb
Privacy Notice Center
Jump to:
General Privacy Notice
Healthcare Professionals Privacy Notice
Employee Privacy Notice
General Privacy Notice
Click  here  to download or print a copy of this BMS general privacy notice.
If you reside in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, or Utah, please find additional information here:  State Privacy Rights section .
If you are a healthcare professional, you can access our other notice here:  HCP Privacy Notice .
BMS US Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Click on the links below to print, download, or view the following policies:
Washington Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy : if you are a resident of Washington or an individual who falls within the definition of Consumer under Washington’s My Health My Data Act.
Nevada Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy : if you are a resident of Nevada.
Our Commitment
At Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), your privacy matters to us.
For us, data privacy goes beyond mere compliance with the law. BMS aims to collect, use, and share information that we obtain about you in a manner consistent with our company values, including high ethical standards, integrity, inclusion, fairness, and transparency. We have a dedicated internal team that reviews how BMS accesses, collects, uses, shares, stores, transfers, deletes and protects information about you. To safeguard your data, BMS employs reasonable and appropriate security measures. When upholding your rights as a data subject, you can contact us to respond to any questions you might have that are not answered in this Notice at
eudpo@bms.com
or as described below.
1. WHO WE ARE
We are Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS). In addition to this Notice, our details (name, address, etc.) may have been given to you separately at the time of the collection of information about you, for example, in a form, an app or a website notice, or in an e-mail, containing a link to this Notice. Together with our worldwide affiliates and other entities that are part of the BMS group which have a relationship with you, we are the controllers of your Personal Information. We refer to these entities as “ BMS ”, “ we ”, “ us ” or “ our ”.
You can access the main locations of our entities and facilities, markets where we distribute our products and the countries where we operate on
www.bms.com .
2. INTRODUCTION – HOW THIS NOTICE APPLIES TO YOU
This general privacy notice (“ Notice ”) is a global Notice. It describes how Bristol Myers Squibb may Use information about you (“ Personal Data ” or “ Personal Information ”) when you interact with our company, in connection with your use of BMS websites, mobile applications, devices and platforms, when we communicate with you and in the context of our business activities. It also informs you about your privacy rights and the measures and processes we put in place to protect your data.
This Notice applies whether you are a patient, member of the public, visitor, shareholder or investor, member of a regulatory body or authority, supplier or business partner, job applicant, or any other individual with whom we engage or who is involved in our business activities.
If you are an employee, supplier, or business partner, there may be additional privacy notices that apply to your information. Please refer to the information you received from us as an employee for additional privacy notice information, and if you are a supplier or business partner, please refer to your contractual agreements with BMS for additional information.
In this Notice, we refer to you as “ you ” or “ your ”. We use the term “ Processing ” or “ Use ” when we refer to the access, collection, recording, organisation, structuring, retrieval, disclosure, storage, transfer, deletion or otherwise use of your Personal Information.
In some instances, we may Use your Personal Information in ways that are not described in this Notice. Where this is the case, we will provide a supplemental or just-in-time privacy notice that explains such Use when we collect it. You should read any supplemental explanation in conjunction with this Notice.
Compliance with applicable laws
When Using your Personal Information in the context of our activities, we will do so in compliance with relevant data privacy and data protection laws, which includes regulatory and national law requirements that may apply to such Use and, where applicable, giving you the specific rights that apply in the country where you reside (altogether “ Applicable Data Protection Law ”).
3. HOW WE USE YOUR INFORMATION ONLINE
Contact information
If you communicate with us through the "contact us" link on our sites, we may ask you for your Personal Information, such as your name, telephone number, professional information and e-mail address so that we can verify your identity or respond to your questions and comments.
We may collect your Personal Information online when you use BMS or third-party operated websites and other online resources, including mobile applications, other digital means or platforms. This may also happen through collaborations that we have in place with third parties or companies that host websites for us or with whom we have partnerships for our products, services, or activities. Below, we give you additional information about how we use your information online.
You may interact with BMS or our partners websites and platforms that relate to BMS products and services, job application, patient recruitment, disease awareness, scientific research, alliance websites, or applications used in the context of patient support or management programs.
We enter into arrangements for those collaborations to require an appropriate protection of your Personal Information. Some area of our web sites and platforms may require you to submit information in order for BMS to respond to your request, permit you to access specific areas or participate in a particular activity. When visiting our websites, please also read our
Legal Notice  and if you are visiting our website for safety reasons, our page on
medical information .
We have identified examples where we Use your Personal Information online in the table below.
Online Information that we may collect when you use our sites
Contact information
If you communicate with us through the "contact us" link on our sites, we may ask you for your Personal Information, such as your name, telephone number, professional information and e-mail address so that we can verify your identity or respond to your questions and comments.
Website features
Our site offers various features, which we may change from time to time. We may ask you to submit certain Personal Information so we can communicate with you about these features and manage them properly.
Contacting Medical Information or reporting an adverse event
If you contact our medical information team (medinfo) or report an adverse event in relation to a BMS product, the information you provide (including your name, contact details, professional information and your questions) will be documented and retained on our databases for purposes of dealing with your enquiry and to comply with the law.
Connections and authentication
Some areas of our web sites and platforms can be restricted. It may require you to log in with usernames, passwords and other authentication mechanisms that belong to you, that you create or that we provide you. When using such features, this may automatically allow us to access certain of your account credentials or other personal user account details to verify your identity or that you have a valid license to practice as a professional.
Other uses of information
We may Use the Personal Information you provide through BMS websites or platforms for our internal purposes. These purposes include administration of the site, data analytics, compliance with our legal obligations or our internal policies and procedures.
Cookies and similar tracking technologies
When connecting to our various websites, applications, and other digital platforms, we may use cookies and other similar technologies that may allow us or third parties to collect Personal Information about you. Depending on the country where you reside, you may opt-in or opt-out from options or technologies that we use and display. Please read our
18
below for more information.
Interest-Based Advertising (IBA).
We may use 3rd party advertising companies to tailor online and mobile advertisements to you based on predictions about your interests. We explain how we may Use your Personal Information in this context in our section about
cookies .
Links to other third-party websites
As a convenience to users, our sites contain links to other third-party websites that may offer additional information, such as educational or professional materials, services and contacts. This Notice does not apply to your use of those other websites. Before using the linked websites, please review their privacy notices to understand how they use and protect your Personal Information.
4. WHAT INFORMATION WE MAY PROCESS ABOUT YOU
The information that we Process about you may include various categories of Personal Data depending on your interactions with BMS, third parties with whom we collaborate, or external sources that provide us with your Personal Data. We have outlined below the main categories of Personal Information and, where applicable categories of sensitive Personal Information that we may collect about you.
Examples of general categories of Personal Information
Contact information
Full name, personal or professional postal and/or email address, phone number and other contact details.
Identification information
Full name, initials, date of birth, photographs, or government-issued identification, such as driving licence, passport, professional licence number, or government ID number.
Financial information
Payment-related information, such as your bank address or account details and number, tax-related information for business purposes, or other information about you, your relatives, connections, your suppliers or third parties for example to verify the absence of conflicts of interest or to comply with anti-bribery laws.
Professional information
Job title, CVs and resume, educational information, professional qualifications, position, work experience, background checks, professional networks, programs, publications and activities, referrals and, other relevant professional information where needed.
Categorization and classification data
In some cases, we may classify, organize, rank, rate or create profiles relating to our audiences (for example, via our customer relationship management system or other similar tools). When doing so, those activities are conducted with human intervention by BMS staff or authorised third-party employees to capture:
data relating to how you behave using our technologies (for example websites, mobile applications, platforms, or care programs);
data used to categorize, analyse, or predict performance and preferences.
You can read more about this activity in
section 10
below.
Sentiment analysis and analytics, social media and data from publicly available sources
We may obtain information from publicly available sources, third-party service providers specialized in social media listening, or from the Internet to understand how the general public or influencers perceive our brand, products and activities.
This may include collecting information about:
the volume of coverage, reach and popularity data, sentiments (negative/positive), most frequent words and topics that you use, engagement (amount of likes, favourites, comments, shares of users on a specific topic), contributors’ demographics (native language, country of origin and gender), and date and time of posts to see development over time, which we may collect either via our channels, websites, social media or via third-party providers.
When conducting such activity, we do not make individual decisions on users unless we inform you otherwise. We have agreements in place with third parties to protect and limit information Used for this purpose to aggregate reports. If we need to specifically identify you, we will use reasonable efforts to inform you about our Use of your Personal Information. You can read more about this activity in
section 10
below.
Data from social media activities and monitoring
BMS uses social media channels to share important news about our research and commercial activities, programs, and initiatives to improve the life of patients. You may connect using your login details on such platforms or visit publicly available pages. When monitoring our channels, we may receive aggregate information or access Personal Information about you, such as your username, profile, and what you say, like or comment on our channel.
When monitoring our channels, BMS may also receive information about potential adverse events about someone using a BMS product. If we identify or receive safety information about patients, we may be required to notify competent authorities about pharmacovigilance cases.
You should consider carefully what information about yourself and others (such as colleagues, friends, customers, or patients) you choose to share when you use social media. If you need to report any concern about our products, we encourage you to contact us via our contact forms on our official BMS sites. Because the information you may share becomes public and often cannot be permanently erased on those platforms, we recommend that you do not report sensitive information, including health information through BMS social media platforms.
We may provide additional notice and choices to you about how BMS may Use Personal Information on social media platforms, our websites and other online resources that we utilize.
Information technology-related data
The information we may collect might originate from your use of BMS’s sites, websites, mobile applications, and other connected devices (such as medical devices and Apps) and includes:
Internet Protocol (IP) address, geolocation data, your browser, operating systems, device ID;
data captured by cookies and similar tracking technologies, which may include analytics information and information about the date and time of your request (read our
cookies section
below); or
Information that we may collect that describes and gives information about other data ("metadata”). This Notice applies to the extent such metadata allows us to draw precise conclusions about your private life, to identify you or to further Use your Personal Information for our purposes. Where required under Applicable Data Protection Laws, we will inform you and ask for your permission prior to collecting such information.
De-identified and anonymized information
We may use Personal Information about you to:
aggregate and/or de-identify information about you; or
use suggestions, comments, and ideas that are not personally identifiable.
In some situations, we may collect sensitive Personal Information about you. Depending upon the country in which you reside and the particular context for the collection of such Personal Information, this may include the following information:
Examples of special categories of data / sensitive Personal Information
General types of sensitive Personal Information
Data revealing race or ethnicity (such as for diversity and inclusion initiatives);
Political opinions (such as for employment purposes);
Religious or philosophical beliefs (such as for tax purposes), or trade union membership (such as to comply with labor laws);
Bank account and payment details (such as when contracting with you);
National ID, passport number, social security number, driver’s license number (such as when contracting with you or to comply with the law);
In certain situations, or jurisdictions, e-mail content or text messages (such as non-solicited content);
Criminal records or creditworthy information (such as to enter into a contract with you or to comply with the law);
Data related to a person's sex life or sexual orientation;
Precise geolocation.
Health information
(if permitted or required by law)
We may collect data relating to your health in limited contexts, which includes:
health data or status needed for managing accidents cases or for disease prevention in the context of public health;
dietary preferences or restrictions (such as food allergies), special conditions or disabilities when attending an event;
genetic or biometric information, (for example, for identification and safety purposes, in relation to BMS’s risk management and drug safety programs, for accessibility purposes for visitors to BMS facilities and manufacturing sites, or for security or fraud prevention or detection purposes); or
other health data, combined with other identifiers that we may collect to provide you with cell therapies, personalized medicines and other innovative therapies or devices that we use to manufacture our products, ensure product quality, safety, performance, vigilance and to ensure patient safety. Such Personal Information may include your initials, name, key-coded or pseudonymized data, and other related information necessary for the provision of our products when necessary to protect your health safety or to comply with the law.
5. WHERE DO WE GET YOUR INFORMATION FROM
In most cases, BMS will collect information directly from you, although sometimes we will obtain information from public or third-party information sources or from use of web-based, devices or other technologies which automatically generate such information. We have outlined below the main ways BMS collects and Processes Personal Data when interacting directly or indirectly with you.
We may collect information from you directly:
when we interact with you in the course of our activities or when you participate in a BMS activity, event or program (such as diversity and inclusion, ambassador or patient support programs);
in the context of a specific treatment, such as for personalized medicines, using medical devices or digital platforms or applications;
when we engage service providers, business partners or institutions for services, collaborations or operations;
when you sign up to receive our communications to become a member of our databases or when registering to receive our press releases, e-mail alerts, marketing communications or more information about our activities;
when you share information with us through our various contact points, such as through our company products, commercial, clinical or alliance websites, mobile applications, contact forms, call centers, career application websites, during offices or manufacturing site visits, or for product inquiries;
when we collect information about you from your computer or other devices you use when visiting BMS’s website or mobile applications, or other products, our offices and facilities; or
when you share medical information with us relating to adverse events, pharmacovigilance or incidents involving devices or applications. These disclosures can be communicated in-person or remotely, including by calling us, or via our websites and other digital channels or means of communication.
We may collect Information about you indirectly:
when we receive information about you through a healthcare professional where necessary for pharmacovigilance, incident management, risk management, investigation, or litigation purposes;
when we obtain information that is accessible from public registries, databases, or other third-party sources, such as service providers, agencies or private organizations;
when you have made information about you publicly available on the Internet, including websites, social media platforms, scientific reviews, articles and publications and other sources, in which case we will either inform you, anonymize the data or get your prior consent;
when necessary to verify your credentials, professional information (such as by accessing publicly accessible information, national registries or third-party databases) or your identity for compliance, security or ID verification purposes;
when you make public posts on social media platforms that we follow (for example, so that we can understand public opinions).
We may also collect information about you automatically, such as for security and systems monitoring (e.g. through video (CCTV) recording) and building access control logs when you visit our offices or in other contexts made apparent to you at the time.
6. DATA MINIMIZATION
Where permitted and feasible, and to protect your right to privacy, BMS will take reasonable steps to remove, de-identify or anonymize information that may directly or indirectly identify you, and restrict to the minimum the amount of Personal Information that BMS Uses, submits or transfers to third parties, courts, or governmental bodies.
7. FOR WHAT PURPOSES DOES BMS PROCESS YOUR INFORMATION
This is a global Notice. BMS Processes your information in the context of our regular activities, and in accordance with the purposes as set out in this Notice, a separate notice, or when Applicable Data Protection Laws either permit or require us to do so. These purposes may vary depending on where you live and where BMS operates. Where the laws of a country restrict or prohibit certain activities described in this Notice, we will comply with such requirements. This may include refraining or not Using your Information for those purposes restricted or prohibited in that country.
Below, we list some of the main, but not all, of our purposes for which we may Use Personal Information about you.
Main purposes for which BMS may Use your Personal Information
Contracting purposes
We may Use Personal Information about you, your staff and third parties with whom you collaborate in the context of the services that you provide to us. Such Personal Information may include:
when you need access or authorization to connect to our systems, devices or enter our facilities;
to protect our systems and IT infrastructure;
when assisting us in our activities; or
when we conduct audits or assessments of your organization.
This includes obtaining Personal Information before, during and after we enter into a contract with you, your organization and your staff.
Collaboration and research purposes
We may Use Personal Information about you when we partner with other organizations, including private or public alliances, institutions, for regional or local discussions, or life science industry groups associations and consortiums.
Patient advocacy and support programs
When we exchange, interact or establish partnerships with service providers, local, regional or global patient advocacy associations or organizations, or other life sciences companies, including in the context of patient-related support or management programs.
Providing innovative products, such as devices or personalized medicine
As we develop and manufacture innovative therapies, we may Use Personal Information, which may include sensitive Personal Information about you when providing:
personalized medicines, such as cell-therapies, or other innovative therapies; or
digital health platforms, digital or medical devices, medical equipment, tools or applications.
In this context, we may keep Personal Information, including health information, about you for manufacturing, quality or safety purposes.
Managing BMS’s relationship with you
For example, when we:
respond to your questions, comments, application and requests;
manage your access to our systems, devices and facilities;
conduct due diligence (including for compliance with anti-bribery laws and to avoid conflict of interests) or audits activities;
invite you to our events, activities, initiatives or programs;
conduct assessments, provide training, perform background checks or identity verification, send invoices; or
have to disclose information to competent authorities.
Commercial and marketing activities
When conducting our business operations, we may interact with you in person or digitally or to improve our brand and products, such as through the following activities:
Market Research and surveys:
we collect Personal Information about individuals for market research purposes. We collect this information through surveys and interviews with patients and healthcare professionals or other stakeholders to help us improve our products and understand the market;
Direct Marketing including advertising:
we Process your Personal Information to provide you with marketing information, including in-person, by electronic or remote means. We do this by conducting advertising ourselves or through the sharing of your Personal Information to third parties acting on our behalf. You can understand more about advertising in our
section on cookies ; or
Websites and social media platforms: we may use social media to inform the public about our activities. We might collect aggregate information about social media users when you comment on BMS-related topics or use BMS media channels. See more details in our
section 4 .
In the context of clinical operations and studies
BMS Uses limited Personal Information before, during and after we place a pharmaceutical product or a medical device on the market. This includes during our sponsored clinical trials and studies, such as for drug safety (pharmacovigilance), or incident monitoring (materiovigilance) or when interacting with authorities, regulatory agencies and bodies. We may also conduct real-world evidence activities in compliance with regulatory requirements.
Job application
When we Process professional information to assess individual's suitability for roles at BMS or collaboration purposes, such as when you apply on our career websites, through a job offer posted online or through agencies with whom we have partnerships. You can read more information in section “ 14 ”.
Patient recruitment activities and websites
When we conduct in-person and activities to inform the general public, healthcare professionals and patients about our diseases, upcoming medicines and treatments or studies that may enable individuals to apply to such clinical trials or studies that we conduct.
Regulatory and compliance
Investigations, prosecutions, or defence of legal claims
Other purposes : BMS will Process your Personal Information for other purposes, where permitted or when required such as reporting information for BMS’s risk management and drug safety obligations.
8. HOW BMS JUSTIFIES USING YOUR INFORMATION
In this section, we describe our legal justifications (commonly referred to as “ legal basis ”) for the Use of your Personal Information related to each of our main Processing activities. We will use the legal basis that is most appropriate for the purpose and circumstances related to such Processing. Below, we have explained which legal bases we may choose or have to use when Using your Personal Information.
There may be times where we must use your consent to Process your Personal Information. We may also decide to ask your permission to Process your Personal Data, such as in the context of voluntary initiatives or activities.
Please note:
depending on the country where you reside, the law of your country may not require that BMS use a specific legal basis to justify Using your Personal Information, including transfers of your Personal Information outside your country (for example in the United States). However, when Applicable Data Protection Law requires a legal basis, we will inform you about what legal basis we use at the time of the collection or when we communicate with you. If your jurisdiction requires consent to Process your Personal Information when you interact with us, we will obtain your consent prior to the Use of such Information.
In the following table, you can read more details about what applicable legal basis or combination of legal bases we may use when Processing your Personal Information.
Our legal bases
Examples of activities that we conduct with your Personal Information
We may use our
legitimate business interest
or
private interest
to Process your Personal Information for
conducting our regular commercial activities;
scientific and statistical research purposes;
registering BMS visitors and supplier personnel visiting our offices;
improving our products and services;
interacting with contractors, patients and the general public;
keeping you informed about our regular activities, such as with newsletters;
conducting market research and surveys
collecting information that you decide to share on the internet or social media platforms, collecting responses from surveys, sending you newsletters, and inviting you to events;
responding to your enquiries;
engaging with you whether in-person, remotely, or digitally to organize our activities, or exchange information with you about our products or initiatives, or services;
conducting profiling activities, such as tiering of individuals, our customers, key opinion leaders, visitors of our websites, through the use of applications and devices, and for other similar activities or through other means;
conducting research activities alone or together with other third parties,
to prevent crime (such as fraud, financial crime, and theft of intellectual and industry property) and to ensure the integrity of our manufacturing and other operations, or
when necessary to enable us to operate as a pharmaceutical company.
When we rely on our
contractual relationship
with you
when Using Personal Information about you, your staff, suppliers and third parties with whom you collaborate, for example to:
send you requests for proposals, suggest partnerships and collaborations;
conduct due diligence, assessments or audits of your organization;
assess the feasibility of a study with your institution and to contract with you, your institution and staff;
generally manage the contractual relationship with you as a partner, supplier or a third party service provider, such as for billing and payment purposes.
To
comply with applicable laws
We may Use your Personal Information, including keeping or sharing it with authorities as required or when allowed by Applicable Data Protection Laws, such as to:
respond to or notify authorities about pharmacovigilance monitoring activities, incidents or other post-market surveillance obligations;
for spend transparency;
tax or accounting;
anti-bribery and other laws that prohibits conflicts interest; to respond to government regulators, agencies, courts, or other third parties in legal proceedings.
We use the
public interest
When the law of your country enables us to rely on it, in particular in situations that will be of significant public interest, such as for:
scientific research that leads to medical breakthroughs or new medicines, seeking for a better understanding of diseases or to improve our products;
to provide early access to our medicines;
the prevention of diseases (such as in a pandemic situation); or
preventing or the detection of crime.
We may use your
Vital interests
In limited situations, BMS may have to collect information, which includes the use of sensitive Personal Data about you to protect your life or against incidents or other threats.
Other legal exceptions
In some instances, the law of your country may allow BMS to use a legal exception. This may apply, for example, when Using your health data to conduct research projects or to ensure high standards of quality and safety of health care and of medicinal products or medical devices.
With your With your
consent
We may use your prior permission when the law of your country requires us to do so, for example to Use your Personal Information, disclose it, transfer it to, or share it with, third parties, including outside your country of residence. In other instances, we may require your prior consent:
to send you commercial communications electronically, such as for direct marketing, market research, surveys, or for general interactions with you;
to invite you to events or to propose you participate in various BMS activities and initiatives; or
to use your images (such as your photographs, audio or video recordings) for interviews, events or other BMS initiatives.
When you consent to the Processing of your Personal Information, you may have the right to withdraw that permission at any time. In such case, we will cease to Use your information in the future and, unless BMS has an obligation to keep it for a longer period, we will employ reasonable measures to limit or prevent further Use of it. This includes archiving, blocking, or employing encryption, anonymization, or erasure techniques.
9. WITH WHOM DO WE SHARE YOUR INFORMATION
As a multinational company operating worldwide, your Personal Information may be shared with, or accessed by, parties located outside your country of residence. If you are located outside of the United States, BMS may share your Personal Information with parties located in countries that provide less protection than in your country, which includes the United States. We may also Process and share your Personal Information with some of our affiliates and other members of the BMS group including selected and approved third parties (vendors and business partners) that help us operate worldwide. When doing so, we implement appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized access or Use of your Personal Information.
Below you can find more information about how BMS shares your Personal Information within its group of entities and with third parties.
Sharing your Personal Information within the BMS group
Often, we share your Personal Information within the BMS group of companies (“ BMS Group ”). This may include the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company headquarters in the United States and all of its current and future subsidiaries, branch offices, affiliates, entities and other companies that are part of, owned or controlled by, the BMS Group. When exchanging information internally, we rely on appropriate arrangements and mechanisms to cover any transfer of your Personal Information within our corporate structure, such as binding corporate rules (BCRs), contractual arrangements approved by authorities or based on consent.
Sharing your Personal Information with third parties
To conduct our business, we share with, or disclose Personal Information to, third parties, such as:
Third-party service providers
for the purpose of outsourcing specific business activities to request external support and resources. This may include companies that provide information technology services, clinical trials and studies support, marketing or market research services, events, meeting and planning services, or services related to talent acquisition or consultancy;
business partners
such as external scientists and healthcare professionals to review and assist us with healthcare compliance activities and institutions and other organizations with whom we collaborate to support our clinical or commercial activities (such as for clinical studies, patient support programs, and so on);
digital advertising companies , such as advertising networks or platforms that help us understand how which of our products or programs you are most likely to be interested in learning about;
regulatory and health authorities
including governmental bodies (such as the FDA, EMA, NHS), data protection authorities, tax authorities, or courts in case of disputes, when permitted or required by Applicable Data Protection Law; and
third parties to whom BMS is legally obligated to provide such information,
such as other parties in litigation or legal disputes, guardians, conservators, or individuals with powers of attorney.
Data sharing in connection with a transfer of control
Circumstances may arise where we decide to reorganize or divest part or all of our business or a line of our business (or any portion of our assets), including our information databases and websites, through a sale, divestiture, merger, acquisition, in the event of a bankruptcy, or other means of transfer. In any such circumstance, your Personal Information may be shared with, sold, transferred, rented, licensed, or otherwise provided or made available by us or on our behalf to actual or potential parties to, and in connection with, the contemplated transaction (without your consent or any further notice to you). In such circumstances, we will seek written assurances that Personal Information about you submitted through this Website will be protected appropriately.
If you are in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and Switzerland
Whenever we transfer your Personal Information within the EEA, Switzerland or to countries that are deemed “adequate”, such countries are deemed to offer the same level of protection as given by the law of your country. When accessing your Personal Data from, or transferring it,
outside of the EEA
or Switzerland
to countries that
may not provide the same level of protection as your own country,
we will use appropriate safeguards to protect your right to privacy. For example, such safeguards may consist of using Standard Contractual Clauses (to exchange information with third parties outside of the EEA and Switzerland), Binding Corporate Rules (for data transfer within the BMS group of companies) as approved by the European Commission or the competent authority, data transfer agreements or your consent.
If you are outside the EEA and Switzerland
Where possible, we will allow access to or the transfer of your Personal Information outside your country of residence:
to countries that provide a reasonable high level of data protection;
using the most appropriate data transfer mechanisms available to BMS; or
where required by Applicable Data Protection Laws, after we get your prior permission, for the collection, disclosure to third parties and the transfer of your Personal Information to a country which does not provide an adequate protection equivalent to the laws of your country of residence.
10. AUTOMATED DECISION-MAKING, PROFILING, AND INDIVIDUALS’ RIGHTS
We may use algorithms that will enable us to use automated decision-making, including to create profiles. This means that when we use certain technologies, software or algorithms, which may allow us to create profiles, tiering, further understand trends and statistics or use other advanced technologies or automated processing, someone will be involved to validate decisions resulting from such use.
We do not use profiles to make any decisions that produce legal or similarly significant effects, such as the provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing, insurance, education enrollment or opportunity, criminal justice, employment opportunities, health-care services, or access to essential goods or services.
11. WHAT ARE MY RIGHTS AND HOW TO EXERCISE THEM
You have a number of rights related to the Personal Data that we Process about you (this will depend on the jurisdiction where you reside and the legal basis that we use). Most often, exercising your right is free of charge. We may also have to clarify your request and explain if we can comply with it or if this is restricted in your situation. You can always contact BMS at
dpo@bms.com
or via this
contact form  to find out more about your rights and how best to exercise them.
Below we have listed individual rights that may apply depending on your jurisdiction.
You may have the right to:
receive a copy
of your Personal Data we hold about you;
correct
your Personal Data we hold about you;
where applicable,
receive a machine-readable copy
of your Personal Data (portability);
ask us to
delete
your Personal Data or
restrict
how it is used;
where applicable,
object
to Processing of your Personal Data for certain purposes, such as when we use it for marketing purposes (opt-out); and
where you have provided us with your
consent
to Use your Personal Data, you can withdraw your consent at any time without affecting BMS’ Use of such information before your withdrawal of consent.
Exceptions to your rights
There may be exceptions to your privacy rights described in this Notice. This depends on the country where you reside, why we are Processing your Personal Data and if your request may impair the rights of others. If we cannot comply with your request to exercise your privacy rights, for example when we keep your information for regulatory purposes or for the investigation, prosecution, or defence of a legal claim, we will explain this to you when you contact us.
Example
If you ask BMS to stop sending you marketing communications by e-mail, we may keep your e-mail address and other contact details in case we conduct other activities with you, such as when we have a contract with you or if we have a legal or a regulatory obligation to keep your contact details.
How to contact us
If you have any questions about how we Use your Personal Information, please contact our Data Protection Office at
dpo@bms.com . If you are resident in a State that provides you with more rights (such as California), you can submit requests by calling 855-961-0474 or by completing the online form at
www.bms.com/dpo/us/request . For further details, see our section on
State Privacy Rights .
Note:
We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity. If your request is complex or if you have made a large number of requests, it may take us longer to respond to you, but we will keep you informed of any delays. You will not have to pay a fee to obtain a copy of your Personal Data (or to exercise any of the other rights). However, we may charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive or excessive.
Lodging a complaint with a competent authority
In some countries, you may have the right to lodge a complaint to the relevant data protection or competent authority if you believe that we Process your Personal Information unlawfully or are violating your rights. For example, in the European Union, you can access the list of competent data protection authorities, including the authority in your country of residence by clicking
here
or by visiting:
https://edpb.europa.eu/about-edpb/board/members_en .
12. HOW LONG WE RETAIN YOUR INFORMATION
We aim not to retain your Personal Information for longer than necessary for the specific business purposes for which it was collected. After that, unless we are required to continue to maintain the information by law, we may anonymize, restrict, block or delete it. In certain cases, BMS may retain your Personal Information for a longer period for the purpose that we have and, in a manner, or a format, that may require BMS to keep certain identifiers. In such case, we may archive it and apply appropriate measures which may consist of blocking, preventing, obfuscating, pseudonymizing, key-coding, or restricting any further access and Use of Personal Information about you. When retaining and storing information about you in our systems, we have put in place data retention schedules in accordance with our company policy and in compliance with Applicable Data Protection Laws.
When assessing the appropriate retention period, we take into account the quantity, nature and sensitivity of Personal Data, the potential risk of harm in the event of unauthorised use or disclosure, the purposes of the Processing and whether or not these purposes can be achieved by other means, as well as applicable legal obligations.
13. HOW DO WE PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION
We implement appropriate technical and organizational controls to protect your Personal Information that we hold to prevent unauthorized Processing, loss of data, disclosure, use, alteration, or destruction.  Where appropriate, we use encryption, pseudonymisation (such as key coding), de-identification and other technologies that can assist us in securing the information about you, including measures to restore access to your information. We also require our service providers to comply with reasonable and recognized data privacy and security requirements.
We conduct tests and reviews of our technologies and processes, including a review of our business partners and vendors, so that our security controls remain effective. Also, we may further anonymize your Personal Information when it is no longer needed for the purpose for which BMS originally collected such Information.
14. APPLYING TO WORK AT BMS
BMS may Process your Personal Data to evaluate your application to work at BMS. When applying for an opportunity at BMS, we may collect and Process Personal Information about you directly or indirectly from our official websites, third parties or when you make this information publicly available or accessible by third parties for recruitment purposes. You can consult our career opportunities on this page:
https://careers.bms.com/ . Below, you can find more information about how BMS Processes your Personal Information when you apply to work for us.
To consider your application we may collect:
your professional experience,
such as job title, education information, professional qualifications, work experience, publications, and professional networks, programs and activities in which you participated;
your contact details,
such as your e-mail address, full name, date of birth and other information necessary to submit your application;
information gathered from agencies , such as information from recruitment agencies, reference providers, and (where permitted by law) background screening providers;
publicly available information from
a company website, internet searches or social media platforms such as LinkedIn or other social media platforms, and publicly available profile information (such as your experience, skills, and interests);
information that you allow us to access , for example, if you choose to simplify your login Process to the job platform to allow direct access once you have signed in to your third party social media user account, (such as Gmail or Yahoo!), or if you want to upload information to the platform (such as from LinkedIn) instead of manually completing an application; and
other information
that you submit to us, that we obtain indirectly or that we access when looking for new hires or career opportunities.
As your job application proceeds
We may ask you to share additional Personal Information with us, such as:
official information,
such as government issued identification number or tax status;
financial information , such as bank account details;
special categories of Personal Data / sensitive Personal Data , including (where it is permitted, necessary or required for your application) information about your health, marital status, trade union membership religion, criminal records, or credit worthiness data; or
other information
necessary for your interview or providing you with a job offer, such as details of any known disability or workplace accessibility needs, background information, travel and expenses, performance management, emergency contact details, compensation, hours of work, holidays and benefits-related information.
Where do we Use your Personal Information for job application
As a multinational organization, our affiliates transfer information globally. When you upload information to a job search platform, you provide it to all our affiliates, each of which may Process it for its own recruitment purposes. This is the case even where you respond to a job posting that mentions a particular BMS affiliate. Accordingly, we may transfer globally information about you (for example, if you are in the European Economic Area ("EEA"), your information may be transferred outside the EEA; if you are in Australia, your information may be transferred outside Australia).
We will not keep your Personal Information for longer than needed to consider your application. However, we may ask your permission to keep some information about you for a longer period (for example your CV or resume, work experience, cover letters and so on) to consider your eligibility for further job opportunities.
15. WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT ABOUT OUR PATIENTS
BMS Processes Personal Information about patients that use our treatments and in the context of our clinical research activities. We may also Use patient Personal Information in connection with certain activities, such as through our services, collaborations or consortium agreements with third parties (for example genetic data), during events interviews, for advocacy related activities, or for clinical trials, studies or research projects linked to our products.
Note, this section, together with this Notice, does not apply to participants to clinical trials.
This Notice applies to how BMS may Use Personal Information about you when you participate in non-clinical activities. If you are involved in a research project, clinical trial or in a study you can contact your physician or contact
dpo@bms.com . Below, you will find out more information about Personal Data that we collect about patients in contexts other than clinical studies or research projects.
Patients participating in non-clinical research activities with BMS
In the context of non-clinical research activities, BMS generally does not collect patient data, except in certain occasions, such as where we have reporting obligations to authorities, if you agree to share such information with us or, if permitted, by information you prior to the collection of your Personal Information. In some instances, we may have interactions with you or access information about you outside of our clinical research activities. This may happen, for example and where permitted, when:
accessing our personalized medicines, other innovative therapies or devices;
BMS collaborates with patient organizations;
inviting you to our events;
we propose patient support programs;
we use certain digital technologies, platform or device;
we use patient recruitment websites or conduct awareness or recruitment campaigns on social media; or
when conducting surveys, market research, interviews or propose ambassador programs.
When doing so, BMS will either collect information that does not allow us to identify you or use technical measures to limit the risk of identification. For example, we may use measures that could include:
replacing your information such as name, identification number or any other information with a code (key-coded study data);
using a third party provider who will only share your Personal Information in an aggregate manner with BMS;
anonymizing your Personal Information after its collection; or
requesting your prior consent.
For more information about our Use of sensitive data, please refer to
section 4 .
16. STATE PRIVACY RIGHTS
This section applies to data subjects located in States which have implemented privacy laws as of the date of this Policy: California, Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, and Utah. If you are a resident in one of these States, you may have certain specific rights (e.g., access and deletion) that apply to you. We describe those rights below. These rights are not absolute and only apply in certain circumstances.  This means that we may be unable (e.g., due to legal requirements), or not obligated, to satisfy your request.  In some cases, we may need to collect additional Personal Information from you to verify your identity before we provide access or delete your information, such as government-issued identification.  BMS will not discriminate against you for exercising your rights but may not be able to provide you with services or programs that you have requested if we are not able to use your Personal Information.  To submit requests, please call
855-961-0474
or complete the online form at
www.bms.com/dpo/us/request .
State Data Privacy Rights
Disclosure
You have the right to know whether we process your Personal Information. In addition, depending upon the state in which you reside, you may have the right to ask us to describe the categories of  Personal Information we have collected about you and related information including the following:
The categories of Personal Information we have collected about you;
The types of sources used to collect Personal Information about you;
The categories of Personal Information we sold or disclosed for a business purpose about you;
The types of third parties with which we have sold or disclosed  any of your Personal Information (if applicable); and
The purpose(s) of collecting your Personal Information.
Deletion
You have the right to request that we delete the Personal Information we have collected from and about you. In order to exercise this right, BMS must first verify your identity to ensure it is a legitimate request, we will then delete the relevant information unless an exemption applies.
Correction
You have the right to request that we correct your personal information.
Limit  Use of Sensitive Personal Information
You have the right to request that we not use your Sensitive Personal Information to infer characteristics about you.  To exercise this right, click  here.
Opt Out of Sale/Sharing for Cross-Context Behavioral Advertising/Targeted Advertising
Some state data privacy laws define “sale” broadly to mean the exchange of Personal Information for anything of value, not just money.  Based on that definition, we engage in the sale of Personal Information, including when we allow third parties to place certain types of cookies or other trackers on our Web sites. See
Cookies and Tracking Technologies  for more information.  We do not otherwise sell your Personal Information.
You have the right to request that we stop selling your Personal Information in this manner.  You also have the right to request that we stop using your Personal Information for certain types of advertising, known as “targeted advertising” and “cross-context behavioral advertising.” To exercise this right, click  here.
Authorized Agents
You have the right to designate an authorized agent to act on your behalf to exercise some or all of the rights mentioned above in accordance with your state’s data privacy law.  California law allows residents to use agents to exercise all such rights.  Laws in Colorado, Connecticut, and Virginia only allow to submit request to exercise opt-out rights. In order to use an authorized agent, BMS must verify your identity, and your authorized agent must have written permission from you.
Non-discrimination
You have the right to be free from unlawful discrimination for exercising your rights under state data privacy laws.
Consumers with Disabilities
BMS strives to accommodate all customers regardless of disabilities. If you need to receive the information contained in this document in a different format, please contact us using the contact information listed below.
Submitting a Request
To make a request please follow the link
here  to our online form or contact us at the phone number below in the “ Contact Information ” section of this Privacy Notice statement. As outlined above, BMS will need to verify your identity before we provide access or delete your Personal Information and BMS may be unable (e.g., due to legal requirements), or not obligated (e.g., due to applicable exemptions) to fulfill your request (e.g., due to applicable exemptions) to satisfy your request.
Information BMS Collects
Personal Data, or Personal Information, means any information about an identifiable individual. BMS may collect Personal Information directly from you (in person, through online forms, and other interactions with BMS employees, websites, and systems), or from other third parties.
How BMS Uses Personal Information
The purposes for which BMS Uses Personal Information depends on the relationship or interaction with a specific California resident, and we only Process your information for purposes permitted by Applicable Data Protection Laws.  BMS may Use Personal Information to operate, manage, and maintain our business, to provide products and services, and to accomplish business purposes and objectives.
For more information about the purposes for which we Use your Personal Information please refer to
section 7
of this Notice.
17. CHILDREN
BMS websites and mobile applications are not intended or designed for children under the age of 13. Depending on the country where you reside, you may not use this website under the age of 16 or 18. We do not collect information from any individual we know to be under the age of 13 (or older if your country is more restrictive). We do not knowingly sell Personal Information of children under the age of 16. Please contact your physician or
dpo@bms.com
if you need further information relating non-adults participation to our studies.
18. COOKIES AND TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES
Depending on the country where you reside, you may manage your preferences on cookies and similar tracking technologies through the use of consent management tools that are available on our websites. This section applies to cookies and similar tracking technologies. When we collect information that may enable us to identify you, the other sections of this Notice will apply.
What are cookies?
A cookie is a small piece of data that a website asks your browser to store on your device in order to remember information about you, such as your language preference or login information. Such cookies when set by us are called first-party cookies. We may also use third-party cookies – which are cookies from a domain different than the domain of the website you are visiting (for example, those used by social media, instant messaging, CRM or marketing platforms, or advertising companies). For more information about cookies, types of cookies and how to manage cookies, including how to block them and delete them, please visit
http://www.allaboutcookies.org .
Below, we list the main categories of cookies and similar tracking technologies that we may use when you connect to our websites, use our web-based platforms, applications, devices, or when you interact with us electronically or when you receive electronic communications from us (“Online Use”). You can learn more about the purposes for which BMS may use such technologies for your Online Use.
What categories of cookies may BMS use?
We generally use certain types of cookies during your session on our website (“session cookies”). To improve your experience or remember your preferences or choices, we may use cookies that will remain on your device unless you remove them (“persistent cookies”). When using cookies on our websites and other digital services, such technology may include:
Categories of cookies and tracking technologies that BMS may use
Strictly necessary cookies
Those cookies and tracking technologies enable our websites to operate and to improve the security of our website for your Online use, such as when you have to authenticate or use login functionalities to access restricted parts of our websites.
Performance and analytics cookies
Those cookies may allow BMS to:
improve our websites;
understand trends, statistics, capture audience metrics or other site usage about the use of the website or other platform that we may use (such as for analytics purposes);
remember language or other preferences when you navigate; or
use other features on our websites, applications, platforms and devices to improve your Online use.
Social media cookies
On certain BMS websites, we may use social media plugins for you to share interesting content or to connect to certain accounts to share your Personal Information with us. Such platforms may access your history of navigation and collect information about your browsing journey under their own terms.
Web server data and other technologies
BMS and 3rd parties we work with may also collect usage data from our Web site, such as:
the source address that a page request is coming from (e.g. IP address);
domain name, date and time of the page request;
the referring Web site (if any); or
other parameters in the URL (e.g., search criteria).
We use the above-mentioned data to better understand Web site usage as a whole and to determine which areas of our Web site users prefer (e.g., based on the number of visits to those areas). BMS and 3rd parties we work with store and use this information for statistical reporting.
Advertising cookies
Cookies classified as advertising cookies are specifically designed to gather information from you on your about your activities on and off of our Web sites to facilitate or deliver digital advertisement to you based on topics that are likely of interest to you. Read more information about interest-based advertising in
section 3
above.
Other tracking technologies
When using third-party software or websites, mobile applications, devices, web-based platforms or through other Online use, the technology may involve certain built-in tracking technologies. This may include:
web beacons, web server data and similar technologies (in order to improve user experience for our website visitors);
tracking pixels, which we may include as an image in our communications to you. This may allow us to understand when you read electronic communications that we send you, to send you more accurate and relevant content and improve our communications to you;
other trackers that enable functionalities such as remote interactions with you through chatbots, instant messaging; or
cookies used for authentication purposes (such as using patient or physician login to restricted pages or areas).
Why do we use cookies on our website?
In addition to the explanation provided in this Notice and the section above, we use cookies or similar tracking technologies in various instances, such as for the following purposes:
Making your experience more efficient, faster and easier.
By remembering your preferences, like preferred language, display and other settings, maintaining your session, and for authentication purposes. This helps us to provide you with a better user experience. These cookies are also referred to as Session-Id cookies, authentication cookies, and User Interface customization cookies.
Gain useful knowledge about how the site is used.
By collecting information about the number of visitors and other uses. This helps us improve our sites. These cookies are also referred to as analytics cookies. For this purpose, we use services such as Google Analytics which means that Google and similar suppliers will also have access to this information (including your IP address and any other equipment identifiers such as the IMEI number and the MAC address).
Provide easy access to our websites.
This helps us to direct you, share with you our content within sites such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube or Pinterest or allow you to share content that is of your interest. To the extent we use such technology, these ‘social media plug-ins’ may store cookies and similar technology on your computer or other device. This means that the social media sites may access this information (including your IP address), may identify that you interacted with the BMS site.
Improve our marketing communications to you.
Certain cookies, such as web beacons or tracking pixels, may be used by third party systems, such as customer relationship management systems or other service providers who help us manage e-mail campaigns. Those trackers enable us to better understand the success of our communications and the relevance of the content that we share with you. This may allow us to reduce the number of e-mails that we send you and provide you with content, scientific information, or initiatives that are more tailored to your interests.
Collect and analyse advertising campaigns.
We use, and allow certain 3rd parties to use, other technologies, such as web beacons, on our Web sites and in our digital communications to tailor advertising, or to measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. A web beacon is a clear GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) that a company can place on a web site or in digital communications to allow it or a third party (such as an Internet advertising, audience measurement, or social media company). As a result, we and these 3rd parties may collect and use information about your online visits to our Web sites and other websites or engagement with our digital communications.
How can you object or refuse cookies?
Subject to the law of your country, in particular in the European Union, or state we will either inform you, ask your prior permission (opt-in) before placing tracking technologies on your device, or provide you with a right to object (opt-out) for the purposes that we describe in this section. Your web browser, e-mail software (such as Microsoft Outlook, or Google Gmail) and other clients that you use can be set to manage cookies and similar trackers and even reject them by default. Do bear in mind that if you set your browser to automatically reject cookies, your user experience when visiting websites will not be the same: your preferences may not be remembered, some functionality may be lost and you may not be able to access certain areas or features of the sites.
Opt-Out Preference and Do-Not-Track Signals
We recognize the Global Privacy Control signal [if we have reason to believe that you are accessing our Web sites from California or Colorado].  We do not recognize the “do not track” signal that was developed in the early 2000s but not widely adopted.
Interest-Based Advertising (IBA)
We may use 3rd party advertising companies to tailor online and mobile advertisements to you based on predictions about your interests. Your interests could come from several sources including your browsing activity, such as visits to our web sites from your browser and device or your response to online advertisements. These 3rd parties collect and store data about your interests based on your online and mobile activity using different technologies, such as placing or recognizing cookies on your browser, recognizing device identifiers, or using pixel tags. These 3rd parties may also use these types of technologies to recognize you across the devices you use.
For interest-based ads, to opt-out, you may click on the "AdChoices" icon within the advertisement or Web site which will take you to a page where you can learn more about interest-based advertising and manage or opt out of the online targeting technology from the 3rd parties that we work with. Ad Choices Opt-outs are browser and device-specific; therefore, you should repeat your selections across each device and browser on you wish to be opted out. If you opt-out, you may still see advertising from Bristol Myers Squibb online or in mobile applications, but the 3rd parties we work with will not serve our ads based on predictions about your interests.  Also, if you delete or remove cookies or apps, your opt-out selections will not be stored.  You should review your opt-out preferences periodically, or update your choices to include new participating companies. In some cases, the 3rd parties we work with may still collect data about your browsing activity and mobile application activity for other purposes, but will not use this information to select our ads that you see. To learn more about interest-based advertising and how to opt out in desktop and mobile, please visit
http://optout.aboutads.info/#/
and
http://optout.networkadvertising.org/#/ .  To opt out of interest-based ads on mobile, you can download the AppChoices app at
www.aboutads.info/appchoices.
Some parties we work with, such as social media platforms or other 3rd party technology platforms, have their own opt-out procedure. You should review the privacy policies of those properties to learn more about how you can opt-out of interest-based ads on those sites.
Retargeting
The data captured through the tracking technologies used by our Web sites may be shared with our 3rd party advertising technology partners in order to provide you with targeted advertising that may appear on other websites you visit on the internet. These partners use technology to match cookies on your computer with cookies placed on your computer by other websites you may visit or have visited.  These partners may also use cookies and other technologies (e.g. web beacons) to recognize you across the devices you use, such as a mobile phone or laptop.
Below we have identified the main cookies and categories that BMS uses on our websites and platforms.
19. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY NOTICE
BMS may update this notice from time to time by posting any revisions on this website.  Where any material revisions are made, BMS may place a prominent notice on this website and when legally required to do so, will directly notify you.  You are bound by any such revisions and should therefore periodically visit this page to review the most current privacy statement.
20. ONLINE PRIVACY FOR CHILDREN
We are committed to protecting the privacy of children. We do not intend to collect Personal Information from children under 18 years old. If a child has provided us with his or her information that enables us to identify him or her, the parent or guardian of that child may contact us at
(877) 274-0626.
21. POLICY ON USE OF SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS
Bristol Myers Squibb has a policy which provides for the proper use and protection of Social Security numbers obtained in the course of doing business by Bristol Myers Squibb. Such policy protects the confidentiality of Social Security numbers, prohibits unlawful disclosure of Social Security numbers, and limits access to Social Security numbers. This policy applies to all methods of collection of Social Security numbers, including Social Security numbers obtained by oral, written and electronic means.
22. CONTACT US
If you have questions about this Notice or want to obtain more information about our privacy practices, please read the privacy notice of your country of residence for local information and contact details, contact our Data Protection Officer or contact us by postal mail as described below.
Contact
Name of the affiliate/ controller
For residents in the United States you can
contact BMS at :
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
P.O. Box 640
Palatine, IL 60078-0640
800-332-2056
United States
For residents in the United States you can
contact Celgene at :
Celgene Corporation
86 Morris Avenue
Summit, NJ 07901
United States
Healthcare Professionals Privacy Notice
Click
here
to download or print a copy of this BMS healthcare professionals privacy notice.
If you are not a healthcare professional, or if you want to read additional information about our general processing activities, you can access our
General Privacy Notice .
If you reside in California, please find additional information in our
section for California residents .
Our Commitment
At Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), your privacy matters to us.
For us, data privacy goes beyond mere compliance with the law. BMS aims to collect, use, and share information that we obtain about you in a manner consistent with our company values, including high ethical standards, integrity, inclusion, fairness, and transparency. We have a dedicated internal team that reviews how BMS accesses, collects, uses, shares, stores, transfers, deletes and protects information about you. To safeguard your data, BMS employs reasonable and appropriate security measures. When upholding your rights as a data subject, you can contact us to respond to any questions you might have that are not answered in this Notice at
dpo@bms.com
or as described below.
1. WHO WE ARE
We are Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS), a company member of the Bristol Myers Squibb group. In addition to this Notice, our details (name, address, etc.) may have been given to you separately at the time of the collection of information about you, for example, in a form, a notice on an app or a website, or in an e-mail, containing a link to this Notice. Together with our worldwide affiliates and other entities that are part of the BMS group which have a relationship with you, we are the controllers of your Personal Information. We refer to these entities as “ BMS ”, “ we ”, “ us ” or “ our ”.
You can access the main locations of our entities and facilities, and the markets where we distribute our products and the countries where we operate on
www.bms.com .
2. INTRODUCTION – HOW THIS NOTICE APPLIES TO YOU
This privacy notice (“ Notice ”) is a global Notice. It describes how Bristol Myers Squibb may Use information about you (“ Personal Data ” or “ Personal Information ”) as a healthcare professionals, medical professional, personnel and staff of healthcare institutions (such as statisticians, pharmacists, representatives of hospitals, clinicals, universities), government authorities, non-profit organisations, key opinion leaders or influencers, with whom we interact (altogether “ HCPs ”, “ you ”, “ your ”). This Notice applies when you interact with our company, in connection with your use of BMS websites, mobile applications, devices and platforms, when we communicate with you and in the context of our business activities. It also informs you about your privacy rights and the measures and processes we put in place to protect your data.  We use the term “ Processing ” or “ Use ” when we refer to the access, collection, recording, organisation, structuring, retrieval, disclosure, storage, transfer, deletion or otherwise use of your Personal Information.
In some instances, we may use your Personal Information in ways that are not described in this Notice. Where this is the case, we will provide a supplemental or just-in-time Privacy Notice that explains such Use. You should read any supplemental explanation in conjunction with this Notice.
Compliance with applicable laws
When Using your Personal Information in the context of our activities, we will do so in compliance with relevant data privacy and data protection laws, which includes regulatory and national law requirements that may apply to such Use and, where applicable, giving you the specific rights that apply in the country where you reside (altogether
“Applicable Data Protection Law” ).
3. HOW WE USE YOUR INFORMATION ONLINE
We may collect your Personal Information online when you use BMS or third-party operated websites and other online resources, including mobile applications, other digital means or platforms. This may also happen through collaborations that we have in place with third parties or companies that host websites for us or with whom we have partnerships for our products, services, or activities. Below, we give you additional information about how we use your information online.
You may interact with BMS or our partners’ websites and platforms that relate to BMS products and services, job application, patient recruitment, disease awareness, scientific research, alliance websites, or applications used in the context of patient support or management programs.
We enter into arrangements for those collaborations to require an appropriate protection of your Personal Information. Some area of our websites and platforms may require you to submit information in order for BMS to respond to your request, permit you to access specific areas or participate in a particular activity. When visiting our websites, please also read our
Legal Notice  and if you are visiting our website for safety reasons, our page on
Pharmacovigilance Notice .
We have identified examples where we Use your Personal Information online in the table below.
Online Information that we may collect when you use our sites
Contact information
If you communicate with us through the "contact us" link on our websites, we may ask you for your Personal Information, such as your name, telephone number, professional information and e-mail address so that we can verify your identity or respond to your questions and comments.
Website features
Our website offers various features, which we may change from time to time. We may ask you to submit certain Personal Information so we can communicate with you about these features and manage them properly.
Contacting Medical Information or reporting an adverse event
If you contact our medical information team (medinfo) or report an adverse event in relation to a BMS product, the information you provide (including your name, contact details, professional information and your questions) will be documented and retained on our databases for purposes of dealing with your enquiry and to comply with the law.
Connections and authentication
Some areas of our websites and platforms can be restricted. It may require you to log in with usernames, passwords and other authentication mechanisms that belong to you, that you create or that we provide you. When using such features, this may automatically allow us to access certain of your account credentials or other personal user account details to verify your identity or that you have a valid license to practice as a professional.
Other uses of information
We may Use the Personal Information you provide through BMS websites or platforms for our internal purposes. These purposes include administration of the website, data analytics, compliance with our legal obligations or our internal policies and procedures.
Cookies and similar tracking technologies
When connecting to our various websites, applications, and other digital platforms, we may use cookies and other similar technologies that may allow us or third parties to collect Personal Information about you. Depending on the country where you reside, you may opt-in or opt-out from options or technologies that we use and display. Please read our
cookie section
below for more information.
Interest-Based Advertising (IBA).
We may use 3rd party advertising companies to tailor online and mobile advertisements to you based on predictions about your interests. We explain how we may Use your Personal Information in this context in our section about
cookies .
Links to other third-party websites
As a convenience to users, our websites contain links to other third-party websites that may offer additional information, such as educational or professional materials, services and contacts. This Notice does not apply to your use of those other websites. Before using the linked websites, please review their privacy notices to understand how they use and protect your Personal Information.
4. WHAT INFORMATION WE MAY PROCESS ABOUT YOU
We interact with you as an HCP and Use information about you during our activities, such as to conduct clinical trials, for collaborations or commercial activities, for scientific projects, to understand the market or improve our medicines and products. When doing so we may Process various categories of Personal Information depending on your interactions with BMS or third parties with whom we collaborate, or external sources from where we obtain your Personal Data. We have outlined below the main categories of Personal Information and, where applicable categories of sensitive Personal Information that we may collect about you.
Examples of general categories of Personal Information
Contact information
Full name, personal or professional postal and/or email address, phone number and other contact details about you, your organisation, or staff.
Examples:
We may use your contact details, in particular when you interact or work with us, when we communicate with you or share news, materials or invite you to participate in our activities.
Identification information
Full name, initials, date of birth, photographs, or government-issued identification, such as driving licence, passport, professional licence number, or government ID number.
Examples:
To provide you with information on our products or diseases, we may verify your license to practice in your specialisation area (for example through our internal platforms or third-party services.
Financial information
Payment-related information, such as your bank address or account details and number, tax-related information for business purposes, or other information about you, your relatives, connections, your suppliers or third parties.
Examples:
We Use such data to verify the absence of conflicts of interest, conduct due diligence, to comply with anti-bribery laws, for billing purposes when you collaborate with us, participate in advisory boards or render services to us.
Your
professional and background information
Such information may include for example your:
Job title, position, educational information, professional qualifications, referrals, prescribing history, work experience, professional licenses or medical ID number, networks and affiliates, programs and activities you participated in, resume; or
publications authored or co-authored, awards, board memberships, professional conference and events, employment status, influence rankings, individual travel and expense information and other information needed, such as to evaluate or initiate collaborations with you.
Examples:
We Use such information to engage or work with you when BMS evaluates the feasibility of a clinical study in a healthcare organisation where you work or with whom you collaborate, when we use your publications, organise or invite you to expert panels and advisory boards or when we get your data from databases or other available sources.
Spend transparency information
(Transfer of Value)
Such information may include:
city and country where you practice;
date, nature and the value of the payment we have made to you or your organisation, which includes amounts and other advantages that you may receive in the context of your services or collaborations with us;
information related to your organisation and your staff; or
information about payments and services you provided to BMS, including invoices and other tax-related information, or VAT number.
Depending on the country where you reside, BMS Uses and discloses such information based on your consent, transparency codes, the law or our legitimate interest to conduct our regular business activities. This information is generally made publicly available on our official BMS websites.
Categorization and classification data
In some cases, we may Use your Personal Information in order to classify, organise, rank or otherwise create profiles relating to you as a healthcare professional, key opinion leader or as an influencer. This activity may include collecting data about:
your professional history, background, recognitions, number of publications; or
other information that we may collect from you or obtain from third-party databases or other sources.
Example:
We may process such information via certain software, our customer relationship management system (CRM) or other analytics tools. You can read more about this activity in
section 10
below.
Publicly available data or data accessible from databases
We may obtain information about you from publicly available sources, public or private registries, or third-party databases. When obtaining such information, we may Use your professional contact, identification information and other professional and background information for pharmacovigilance reporting purposes and, for example, to create categories or classifications based on your area of specialization, assess if your institution is qualified for a clinical study, to personalize your e-mails and provide relevant scientific or interact with you in the most efficient and relevant manner.
Media data and your image rights
We may Use media content, that may include Personal Information about you, such as your pictures, photographs, audio or video recordings.
Examples:
Such content may originate from events, programs, interviews or other initiatives that we organise.
Information technology-related data
When using the internet, websites, devices or platforms, we may collect data, including metadata, that originates from your use of BMS’s websites, websites, mobile applications, social media channels and other connected devices (such as medical devices and Apps). This may include:
Internet Protocol (IP) address, geolocation data, your information about your device, browser, operating system, or device ID;
data captured through the use of cookies and similar tracking technologies, which may include analytics information; or
information about the date and time of your request.
To read more about our Use of such information, read our
cookie section .
Special category / sensitive Personal Data
(if permitted or required by law)
In limited circumstances, we may collect data concerning your health or sensitive Personal Information about you, such as:
health data that relates to special conditions, dietary preferences or restrictions (such as food allergies) or disabilities when attending an event or when you visit our offices;
aggregate and/or de-identify information about you; or
driver’s licence number, or where permitted or required, your social security number or bank account number;
for example where needed for identification, accessibility and safety purposes for visitors to BMS facilities and manufacturing sites or institution, or for security, fraud prevention or detection purposes;
use suggestions, comments, and ideas that are not personally identifiable. depending on the law of your country, text messages or e-mail content (such as unsolicited communications), your precise geolocation, when using our applications, software, devices or through the use of tracking technologies, your driving licence, bank account details.
Other categories of Personal Data
For more categories of Personal Data that we may collect about you, you can read our
BMS general privacy notice .
Please note:
The categories of Personal Data listed above are not exhaustive and may vary depending on the way that you interact with us or the type of Personal Data that BMS needs to Process for particular activities. In the event that BMS Uses Personal Data about you which is not listed in this Notice, we will inform you of the information that we will Use at the time of collection or when we communicate with you.
5. WHERE DO WE GET YOUR INFORMATION FROM
In most cases, BMS will collect Personal Information directly from you (such as when we collaborate with you) although sometimes we will obtain information about you indirectly from public or third-party information sources, databases or from use of web-based, devices or other technologies which automatically generate such information. We have outlined below the main ways BMS collects and Processes Personal Data when interacting directly or indirectly with you.
We may collect information from you directly:
Such as when:
we conduct clinical trials, studies, research projects;
we enable early access programs to patients or when you request us to provide patients with a BMS product at an early stage, or for compassionate use;
we provide innovative products or devices to patients, such as cell therapies or personalized medicines;
you use or visit about offices and facilities;
you connect to or use our websites, applications, devices or other digital platforms in the context of clinical or commercial activities;
you contact us through our different means of communication (email, call centers, medical information), such as to obtain information about BMS products, diseases or treatments;
you notify, or report medical information to, BMS that may relate to adverse events or incidents, in the context of pharmacovigilance or risk management programs via other similar channels (via pharmacovigilance or risk management touch points), which may include incidents or other post-market surveillance obligation;
we exchange or when you request, information before entering into a contract with you, and thereafter during the term of such arrangement;
we conduct due diligence, assessments, or when we evaluate your institutions’ eligibility to conduct a clinical study and thereafter if we select your institution;
you interact with our BMS representatives in the course of our activities and interactions with you;
you subscribe to our newsletters or want to remain informed about our activities or collaboration opportunities or where the law requires it, you agree to receive promotional materials; or
we conduct in-person or remote visits or exchange information with you about our products and activities.
We may collect Information about you indirectly:
when obtaining it from, or when you make your Personal Information available on, the website of your institution or your office, the Internet, social media, and other digital platforms;
when we access public or private registries, or publication databases, journals, societies, editorial board websites, national registries, professional directories and third-party HCP databases;
when conducting pharmacovigilance, incident management, risk management, monitoring activities, or, investigation, or litigation purposes;
when we need to verify or obtain verification from third parties about your professional status, medical licence, such as by accessing publicly accessible information, national registries or third-party databases) or your identity for compliance, security or ID verification purposes;
when you make public posts on social media platforms that we follow (for example, so that we can understand public opinions).
We may also collect information about you automatically, such as for security and systems monitoring (e.g. through video (CCTV) recording) and building access control logs when you visit our offices or in other contexts made apparent to you at the time.
6. DATA MINIMIZATION
Where permitted and feasible, and to protect your right to privacy, BMS will take reasonable steps to remove, de-identify or anonymize information that may directly or indirectly identify you and restrict to the minimum the amount of Personal Information that BMS Uses, submits or transfers to third parties, courts, or governmental bodies.
7. FOR WHAT PURPOSES DOES BMS PROCESS YOUR INFORMATION
This is a global Notice. BMS Processes your information in the context of our regular activities, and in accordance with the purposes as set out in this Notice, a separate notice, or when Applicable Data Protection Laws either permit or require us to do so. These purposes may vary depending on where you live and where BMS operates. Where the laws of a country restrict or prohibit certain activities described in this Notice, we will comply with such requirements. This may include refraining or not Using your Information for those purposes restricted or prohibited in that country. Below, we list some of the main, but not all, of our purposes for which we may Use Personal Information about you.
Main purposes for which BMS Uses your Personal Information
For collaborations and research purposes
We may Use your Personal Information in that context for example:
to enable BMS to make more informed and objective decisions when identifying and engaging with healthcare professionals and key opinion leaders or influencers or managing the collaboration relationship with you, your organisation or your staff;
to partner with other organisations including private or public alliances, institutions, regional or local discussions, life science industry groups, associations and consortiums; or
when obtaining and assessing feasibility, capability and performance data from you, your institution and your staff, to conduct clinical trials or studies with your institution.
To manage our relationship with you as an HCP
to engage with you about sciences and our activities;
respond to questions and comments; or
to manage our client contractual relationship, including our collaborations or payments we make to you.
In the context of events and congresses
We Use your Personal Data for events and congresses, in particular:
to invite you to our events or to participate in our congresses or advisory boards; or
to manage international or business travel, hotel reservations and other arrangements necessary for organisational purposes;
when we ask you to participate in interviews, panel discussions, to act as an ambassador or as speaker in a particular area; or
when using media content (i) internally for educational and compliance purposes, to promote public health, disease awareness, (ii) externally on our company websites, social media, or on external documentation that we may use as testimony, ambassadorship, advisory or support to our brands, products or other initiatives.
When conducting these activities, we comply with applicable codes of conducts, laws and regulations that may prohibit certain types of promotional activities.
To support and improve our products and medicines or how you deliver healthcare
Those activities may include when we:
conduct patient support or management programs;
send you links to surveys, questionnaires or studies;
conduct specific market researches activities;
collaborate with other companies, industry associations, authorities, patient advocacy organisations, for example creating databases or when conducting research activities, including on real-world evidence studies; or
propose, fund, offer grants or donation, or otherwise make the use of medical devices or digital health capabilities available to help you better treat patients;
These activities allow us to better understand how to improve the safety and quality of our products, the way you provide healthcare to your patients.
Using your data in the context of our clinical operations
Our clinical activities may include:
advising on activities involving you, healthcare organisations (HCOs) or patient organisations;
involving patients and clinical studies organisations;
engaging, assessing, and contracting with, your institution to conduct scientific research and clinical trials;
providing you with literature required to decide on treatment; or
engaging in other commercial activities such as but not limited to the provision of scientific information.
Marketing, commercial and interest-based communications
We conduct this activity when BMS or other third parties engage with you remotely or via digital means, in-person or through newsletters on:
content that relates to healthcare, medical and scientific information; or
invitations to events or to participate in other initiatives that may include market research, patient support programs or surveys);
When sending such communication to you, we may personalize such content to your professional area and interests. You can read more in our
cookies section
Categorization and classification purposes
Categorisation and classification enable us to engage with you, provide you with more relevant information and news, invite you to speak to ad-boards or propose collaborations with us. This may include:
conducting internal assessments or analytics about you that are based on your feedback, evaluations, classifications, what you publish on social media, or performance ratings of your professional activities and outcomes;
creating professional profiles based on your publications, expertise and scientific recognition in your community; or
making classification or other rankings about you among other professionals in your area of specialisation.
You can read more information in our
section 10
below or read our
general privacy notice  for more information on data we collect on social media.
We comply with legal, industry best practices and ethical obligations or codes of conducts
Using Personal Information about you when we:
disclose to authorities how much we pay you (spend transparency / Transfer of Value) or what advantages or benefit that you may receive when collaborating with us;
enforce our terms of use or other legal rights;
conduct pharmacovigilance monitoring and reporting activities;
comply with requests from governmental agencies, such as for pharmacovigilance and reporting purposes, or risk management programs;
have to comply with industry standards, our internal policies or  anti-bribery or corruption laws; or
conduct due diligence, avoid conflict of interests or perform audit, to detect, prevent, investigate misconduct, or in case of investigations or disputes.
Achieve strategic and research purposes
For example, when we engage with Key Opinion Leaders or influencers to enable us to make more informed and objective decisions or in the context of scientific research.
Communicate with you in the context of our business operations
For example, communications, with the individuals, entities, and institutions in the context of our business activities, including to provide training courses and awareness about our products.
Conduct security, fraud or crime detection and prevention programs
For example, to ensure security and confidentiality of your data, ensuring a safe environment at our events, facilities, or networks.
Investigations, prosecutions, or defence of legal claims
When keeping and preserving information about you in order to protect our rights, or for the protection of third-party rights. In certain situations, we may have to submit or transfer such information to third parties, courts, or governmental bodies.
Any other purpose that is relevant in the relationship between Bristol Myers Squibb and HCPs.
8. HOW BMS JUSTIFIES USING YOUR INFORMATION
In this section, we describe our legal justifications (commonly referred to as “legal basis”) for the Use of your Personal Information related to each of our main Processing activities. We will use the legal basis that is most appropriate for the purpose and circumstances related to such Processing. Below, we have explained which legal bases we may choose or have to use when Using your Personal Information.
There may be times where we must use your consent to Process your Personal Information. We may also decide to ask your permission to Process your Personal Data, such as in the context of voluntary initiatives or activities.
Please note:
depending on the country where you reside, the law of your country may not require that BMS use a specific legal basis to justify Using your Personal Information, including transfers of your Personal Information outside your country (for example in the United States). However, when Applicable Data Protection Law requires a legal basis, we will inform you about what legal basis we use at the time of the collection or when we communicate with you. If your jurisdiction requires consent to Process your Personal Information when you interact with us, we will obtain your consent prior to the Use of such Information.
In the following table, you can read more details about what applicable legal basis or combination of legal bases we may use when Processing your Personal Information.
Our legal bases
Examples of activities that we conduct with your Personal Information
We may use our
legitimate business interest
to Process your Personal Information
in the context of our clinical and commercial activities, and depending on the law of your country of residence, we may rely on this legal basis:
to conduct our commercial activities, business relationships and operations;
where necessary for our, or a third party's, scientific and statistical research purposes;
to interact with you (whether in-person or remotely) to present to you our products or research, send you educational or promotional materials, engage with you for market research, invite you to events, send you surveys, run patient support or management programs, or attend advisory boards meetings.
to assess and understand how you are positioned within your field of specialization in comparison to other healthcare professionals, understanding your opinions about our brands, products and initiatives;
for remote and in-person interactions, including for electronic marketing purposes (opt-out) and to maintain our databases which contain information about you; or
where permitted, to conduct analytics, categorize or classify information about you.
Based on the
contractual relationship
with you
We Use and keep your Personal Information for example:
when we assess the feasibility and evaluate the performance of your institution to conduct a study;
when we grant permissions to access our systems;
when we collaborate with you on projects and our clinical or commercial activities;
for billing purposes, audit, or due diligence purposes; or
for other purposes that relate to our contractual relationship with you.
To
comply with applicable laws
We may Use your Personal Information, including keeping or sharing it with authorities when permitted or as required by Applicable Data Protection Laws, such as:
to respond to or notify authorities about pharmacovigilance monitoring activities, incidents, or other post-market surveillance obligations;
in the context of clinical studies and clinical research;
when you contact us for medical information inquiries;
when disclosing how much we pay you for spend transparency in compliance with applicable laws or industry codes of conduct; or
to comply with industry standards, our internal policies or anti-bribery or corruption laws;
to conduct due diligence activities, avoid conflict of interests;
to perform audits, or for tax and accounting purposes
to detect, prevent, or investigate misconducts; or
to respond to government regulators, agencies, courts, or other third parties in legal proceedings, such as in case of investigations or disputes.
With your
consent
We may use your prior permission when the law of your country requires us to do so, for example to Use your Personal Information, disclose it, transfer it to, or share it with, third parties, including outside your country of residence. In other instances, we may require your prior consent, or provide you with a right to object for example when:
engaging with you,
remotely or in-person, to send you commercial communications electronically (via an opt-in or a right to opt-out), such as for direct marketing, market research, surveys, propose collaborations, or for general interactions with you;
inviting you to events,
which may require us to collect certain health information, including special conditions, allergies or dietary preferences about you; or
using media content
containing your images (photographs, audio, or video) for interviews, events or other BMS initiatives.
When you consent to the Processing of your Personal Information, you may have the right to withdraw that permission at any time. In such case, we will cease to Use your information in the future and, unless BMS has an obligation to keep it for a longer period, we will employ reasonable measures to limit or prevent further Use of it. This includes archiving, blocking, or employing encryption, de-identification, anonymization, or erasure techniques.
9. WITH WHOM DO WE SHARE YOUR INFORMATION
As a multinational company operating worldwide, your Personal Information may be shared with, or accessed by, parties located outside your country of residence. If you are located outside of the United States, BMS may share your Personal Information with parties located in countries that provide less protection than in your country, which includes the United States. We may also Process and share your Personal Information with some of our affiliates and other members of the BMS group including selected and approved third parties (vendors and business partners) that help us operate worldwide. When doing so, we implement appropriate measures to prevent unauthorized access or Use of your Personal Information.
Below you can find more information about how BMS shares your Personal Information within its group of entities and with third parties.
Sharing your Personal Information within the BMS group
Often, we share your Personal Information within the BMS group of companies ( “BMS Group” ). This may include the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company headquarters in the United States and all of its current and future subsidiaries, branch offices, affiliates, entities and other companies that are part of, owned or controlled by, the BMS Group. When exchanging information internally, we rely on appropriate arrangements and mechanisms to cover any transfer of your Personal Information within our corporate structure, such as binding corporate rules (BCRs), contractual arrangements approved by authorities or based on consent.
Sharing your Personal Information with third parties
To conduct our business, we share with, or disclose Personal Information to, third parties, such as:
Third-party service providers
for the purpose of outsourcing specific business activities to request external support and resources. This may include companies that provide information technology services, clinical trials and studies support, marketing or market research services, events, meeting and planning services, or services related to talent acquisition or consultancy;
business partners
such as external scientists and healthcare professionals to review and assist us with healthcare compliance activities and institutions and other organizations with whom we collaborate to support our clinical or commercial activities (such as for clinical studies, patient support programs, and so on);
Regulatory and health authorities
including governmental bodies (such as the FDA, EMA, NHS), data protection authorities, tax authorities, or courts in case of disputes, when permitted or required by Applicable Data Protection Law; and
third parties to whom BMS is legally obligated to provide such information,
such as other parties in litigation or legal disputes, guardians, conservators, or individuals with powers of attorney.
When engaging with third parties, we enter into agreements with them for the Processing of Personal Data so that such Processing is carried out in accordance with our instructions, in a confidential, secure, and transparent manner in order to protect your privacy rights. When it is not possible to enter into an agreement with a third party, such as when engaging, reporting or interacting with regulatory or health authorities or courts, and when legally possible, we will use our best efforts to implement appropriate security measures and controls (such as pseudonymisation) to protect your Personal Information.
Data sharing in connection with a transfer of control
Circumstances may arise where we decide to reorganize or divest part or all of our business or a line of our business (or any portion of our assets), including our information databases and websites, through a sale, divestiture, merger, acquisition, in the event of a bankruptcy, or other means of transfer. In any such circumstance, your Personal Information may be shared with, sold, transferred, rented, licensed, or otherwise provided or made available by us or on our behalf to actual or potential parties to, and in connection with, the contemplated transaction (without your consent or any further notice to you). In such circumstances, we will seek written assurances that Personal Information about you submitted through this Website will be protected appropriately.
If you are in the European Economic Area (“EEA”), Switzerland and the United Kingdom
Whenever we transfer your Personal Information within the EEA, Switzerland or to countries that are deemed “adequate”, such countries are deemed to offer the same level of protection as given by the law of your country. When accessing your Personal Data from, or transferring it,
outside of the EEA or Switzerland
to countries that
may not provide the same level of protection as your own country , we will use appropriate safeguards to protect your right to privacy. For example, such safeguards may consist of using Standard Contractual Clauses (to exchange information with third parties outside of the EEA, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), Binding Corporate Rules (for data transfer within the BMS group of companies) as approved by the European Commission or the competent authority, data transfer agreements or your consent.
If you are outside the EEA, Switzerland and the United Kingdom
Where possible, we will allow access to or the transfer of your Personal Information outside your country of residence:
to countries that provide a reasonable high level of data protection;
using the most appropriate data transfer mechanisms available to BMS; or
where required by Applicable Data Protection Laws, after we get your prior permission, for the collection, disclosure to third parties and the transfer of your Personal Information to a country which does not provide an adequate protection equivalent to the laws of your country of residence.
10. CLASSIFICATION, AUTOMATED DECISION-MAKING AND INDIVIDUALS’ RIGHTS
BMS may combine your Personal Data with other information we may already have about you or obtained through public means such as scientific and medical publications, national registries, software, databases, or the Internet. We may also carry out internal assessments, evaluations, categorization, classification, raking or ratings of your activities, and/or your institution or site’s performance, including analytics (where applicable). Below, we provide you with additional information about how we categorize or classify your Personal Data.
We may use algorithms or third-party data sources to tier HCPs according to your research activity (including publications) and skills (such as years of experience and qualifications). Where permitted by Applicable Data Protection Law, applicable rates for speaking and event participation are set according to the tiering of HCPs.
Unless permitted by law,
BMS does not make decisions based solely on automated Processing (including profiling) of individual data unless we inform you otherwise prior to the Processing.
This means that when we use certain technologies, software, or algorithms, which may allow us to create profiles, tiering or further understand trends and statistics, or use other advanced technologies or automated processing, someone will be involved to validate decisions resulting from such use.
As the use of such technologies evolves, we may use algorithms without a person involved in the decision. In this case, if this activity requires us to Process your Personal Information that is not anonymized, we will comply with any applicable legal requirements, such as to draw this to your attention and provide you with information about the logic involved in the decision, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences for you of such Use of your Personal Information. Depending on your country of residence, you will have the right to ask that such decision is taken by an individual.
11. WHAT ARE MY RIGHTS AND HOW TO EXERCISE THEM
You have a number of rights related to the Personal Data that we Process about you (this will depend on the jurisdiction where you reside and the legal basis that we use). Most often, exercising your right is free of charge. We may also have to clarify your request and explain if we can comply with it or if this is restricted in your situation. You can always contact BMS at
dpo@bms.com
or via
this form   to find out more about your rights and how best to exercise them.
Below we have listed individual rights that may apply depending on your jurisdiction.
You may have the right to:
receive a copy
of your Personal Data we hold about you;
correct
your Personal Data we hold about you;
where applicable,
receive a machine-readable copy
of your Personal Data (portability);
ask us to
delete
your Personal Data or restrict how it is used;
where applicable,
object
to Processing of your Personal Data for certain purposes, such as when we use it for marketing purposes (opt-out); and
where you have provided us with your
consent
to Use your Personal Data, you can withdraw your consent at any time without affecting BMS’ Use of such information before your withdrawal of consent.
Exceptions to your rights
There may be exceptions to your privacy rights described in this Notice. This depends on the country where you reside, why we are Processing your Personal Data and if your request may impair the rights of others. If we cannot comply with your request to exercise your privacy rights, for example when we keep your information for regulatory purposes or for the investigation, prosecution, or defence of a legal claim, we will explain this to you when you contact us.
Example
If you ask BMS to stop sending you marketing communications by e-mail, we may keep your e-mail address and other contact details in case we conduct other activities with you, such as when we have a contract with you or if we have a legal or a regulatory obligation to keep your contact details.
How to contact us
If you have any questions about how we Use your Personal Information, please contact our Data Protection Office at
dpo@bms.com .
Note:
We may need to request specific information from you to help us confirm your identity. If your request is complex or if you have made a large number of requests, it may take us longer to respond to you, but we will keep you informed of any delays. You will not have to pay a fee to obtain a copy of your Personal Data (or to exercise any of the other rights). However, we may charge a reasonable fee if your request is clearly unfounded, repetitive or excessive.
Lodging a complaint with a competent supervisory authority
In some countries, you may have the right to lodge a complaint to the relevant data protection or competent authority if you believe that we Process your Personal Information unlawfully or are violating your rights. For example, in the European Union, you can access the list of competent data protection authorities, including the authority in your country of residence by clicking
here .
12. HOW LONG WE RETAIN YOUR INFORMATION
We aim not to retain your Personal Information for longer than necessary for the specific business purposes for which it was collected. After that, unless we are required to continue to maintain the information by law, we may anonymize, restrict, block or delete it.
In certain cases, BMS may retain your Personal Information for a longer period for the purpose that we have and, in a manner, or a format, that may require BMS to keep certain identifiers. In such case, we may archive it and apply appropriate measures which may consist of blocking, preventing, obfuscating, pseudonymizing, key-coding, or restricting any further access and Use of Personal Information about you. When retaining and storing information about you in our systems, we have put in place data retention schedules in accordance with our company policy and in compliance with Applicable Data Protection Laws.
When assessing the appropriate retention period, we take into account the quantity, nature and sensitivity of Personal Data, the potential risk of harm in the event of unauthorised use or disclosure, the purposes of the Processing and whether or not these purposes can be achieved by other means, as well as applicable legal obligations.
13. HOW DO WE PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION
We implement appropriate technical and organizational controls to protect your Personal Information that we hold to prevent unauthorized Processing, loss of data, disclosure, use, alteration, or destruction.  Where appropriate, we use encryption, pseudonymisation (such as key coding), de-identification and other technologies that can assist us in securing the information about you, including measures to restore access to your information. We also require our service providers to comply with reasonable and recognized data privacy and security requirements.
We conduct tests and reviews of our technologies and processes, including a review of our business partners and vendors, so that our security controls remain effective. Also, we may further anonymize your Personal Information when it is no longer needed for the purpose for which BMS originally collected such Information.
14. STATE PRIVACY RIGHTS
This section applies to data subjects located in States which have implemented privacy laws (e.g. California). Depending on the State where you reside or from which you originate, you may have certain specific rights (e.g., access and deletion) that apply to you. These rights are not absolute and only apply in certain circumstances.  This means that we may be unable (e.g., due to legal requirements), or not obligated, to satisfy your request.  In some cases, we may need to collect additional Personal Information from you to verify your identity before we provide access or delete your information, such as government-issued identification.  BMS will not discriminate against you for exercising your rights but may not be able to provide you with services or programs that you have requested if we are not able to use your Personal Information.  To submit requests, please call
855-961-0474
or complete the online form at
www.bms.com/dpo/us/request .
Below, you will find more information about State privacy laws.
CALIFORNIA
Under the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), its further amendments and related legal acts (such as the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020), California residents may have specific rights regarding their Personal Information held by private companies. The information in this section applies solely to visitors, users, and others who reside in the State of California (“consumers,” “you”).
Your rights under Californian data privacy law
Disclosure
You have the right to ask us to disclose to you any Personal Information we have collected about you in the last 12 months. In order to exercise this right, BMS must first verify your identity to ensure it is a legitimate request, and then disclose to you:
The categories of Personal Information we have collected about you;
The types of sources used to collect Personal Information about you;
The types of third parties with which we have shared any of your Personal Information (if applicable); and
The purpose(s) of collecting your Personal Information.
Deletion
You have the right to request that we delete the Personal Information we have collected from and about you. In order to exercise this right, BMS must first verify your identity to ensure it is a legitimate request, we will then delete the relevant information unless an exemption applies.
Authorized Agents
You have the right to designate an authorized agent to act on your behalf to exercise your rights under the CCPA. In order to do so, BMS must verify your identity, and your authorized agent must have written permission from you. We reserve the right to deny a request from an agent that does not submit proof that they are authorized to act on your behalf.
Non-discrimination
You have the right to be free from unlawful discrimination for exercising your rights under the CCPA.
Consumers with Disabilities
BMS strives to accommodate all customers regardless of disabilities. If you need to receive the information contained in this document in a different format, please contact us using the contact information listed below.
Submitting a Request
To make a request please follow the link
here
to our online form or contact us at the phone number below in the “Contact Information” section of this Privacy Notice statement. As outlined above, BMS will need to verify your identity before we provide access or delete your Personal Information and BMS may be unable (e.g., due to legal requirements), or not obligated (e.g., due to applicable exemptions) to fulfill your request (e.g., due to applicable exemptions) to satisfy your request.
Information BMS Collects
Personal Data, or Personal Information, means any information about an identifiable individual. BMS may collect Personal Information directly from you (in person, through online forms, and other interactions with BMS employees, websites, and systems), or from other third parties.
Please note:
BMS
does not “sell”
your Personal Information. For purposes of this Disclosure, “sell” or “sold” means the disclosure of Personal Information for monetary or other valuable consideration.
How BMS Uses Personal Information
The purposes for which BMS Uses Personal Information depends on the relationship or interaction with a specific California resident, and we only Process your information for purposes permitted by Applicable Data Protection Laws.  BMS may Use Personal Information to operate, manage, and maintain our business, to provide products and services, and to accomplish business purposes and objectives.
For more information about the purposes for which we Use your Personal Information please refer to
section 7
of this Notice.
15. COOKIES AND TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES
Depending on the country where you reside, you may manage your preferences on cookies and similar tracking technologies through the use of consent management tools that are available on our websites. This section applies to cookies and similar tracking technologies and we explain what our use of cookies and similar tracking technologies means to you and how to disable tracking (such as using opt-in or opt-out preferences). When we collect information that may enable us to identify you, the other sections of this Notice will apply.
What are cookies?
A cookie is a small piece of data that a website asks your browser to store on your device in order to remember information about you, such as your language preference or login information. Such cookies when set by us are called first-party cookies. We may also use third-party cookies – which are cookies from a domain different than the domain of the website you are visiting (for example, those used by social media, instant messaging, CRM or marketing platforms, or advertising companies). For more information about cookies, types of cookies and how to manage cookies, including how to block them and delete them, please visit
https://www.allaboutcookies.org .
Below, we list the main categories of cookies and similar tracking technologies that we may use when you connect to our websites, use our web-based platforms, applications, devices, or when you interact with us electronically or when you receive electronic communications from us ( “Online Use” ). You can learn more about the purposes for which BMS may use such technologies for your Online Use.
What categories of cookies may BMS use?
We generally use certain types of cookies during your session on our website (“session cookies”). To improve your experience or remember your preferences or choices, we may use cookies that will remain on your device unless you remove them (“persistent cookies”). When using cookies on our websites and other digital services, such technology may include:
Categories of cookies and tracking technologies that BMS may use
Strictly necessary cookies
(“required”)
Those cookies and tracking technologies enable our websites to operate and to improve the security of our website for your Online use, such as when you have to authenticate or use login functionalities to access restricted parts of our websites (such as using patient or physician login or page selection to restricted pages or areas of a website or application).
Performance and analytics cookies
Those cookies may allow BMS to:
improve our websites;
understand trends, statistics, capture audience metrics or other website usage about the use of the website or other platform that we may use (such as for analytics purposes);
remember language or other preferences when you navigate; or
use other features on our websites, applications, platforms and devices to improve your Online Use.
These cookies enable us to better know the use of our websites, establish statistics on their uses and visits (e.g. information on each visited page, how long a user navigates on a specific page, how long it takes to download a specific page, what are the users’ actions on each page (click, selection, etc.).
Social media cookies
On certain BMS websites, we may use social media plugins for you to share interesting content or to connect to certain accounts to share your Personal Information with us. Such platforms may access your history of navigation and collect information about your browsing journey under their own terms. You can access more information when connecting to our websites.
Web server data and other technologies
BMS and 3rd parties we work with may also collect usage data from our Website, such as:
the source address that a page request is coming from (e.g. IP address);
domain name, date and time of the page request;
the referring Website (if any); or
other parameters in the URL (e.g., search criteria).
We use the above-mentioned data to better understand Website usage as a whole and to determine which areas of our Website users prefer (e.g., based on the number of visits to those areas). BMS and 3rd parties we work with store and use this information for statistical reporting.
Advertising cookies
Cookies classified as advertising cookies are specifically designed to gather information from you on your device to display advertisements to you based on relevant topics that interest you. To the extent BMS can use such cookies and where relevant to the interaction with you, advertisers will place these cookies on a website with the website operator's permission or inform you in a notice about the use of such advertising features. Read more information about interest-based advertising below.
Other tracking technologies
When using third-party software or websites, mobile applications, devices, web-based platforms or through other Online use, the technology may involve certain built-in tracking technologies. This may include:
web beacons, web server data and similar technologies (in order to improve user experience for our website visitors);
tracking pixels, which we may include as an image in our communications to you. This may allow us to understand when you read electronic communications that we send you, to send you more accurate and relevant content and improve our communications to you;
other trackers that enable functionalities such as remote interactions with you through chatbots, instant messaging; or
cookies used for authentication purposes (such as using physician login to restricted pages or areas).
Why do we use cookies on our website?
In addition to the explanation provided in this Notice and the section above, we use cookies or similar tracking technologies in various instances, such as for the following purposes:
Making your experience more efficient, faster and easier:
by remembering your preferences, like preferred language, display and other settings, maintaining your session, and for authentication purposes. This helps us to provide you with a better user experience. These cookies are also referred to as Session-Id cookies, authentication cookies, and User Interface customization cookies.
Gain useful knowledge about how the website is used:
by collecting information about the number of visitors and other uses. This helps us improve our websites. These cookies are also referred to as analytics cookies. For this purpose, we use services such as Google Analytics which means that Google and similar suppliers will also have access to this information (including your IP address and any other equipment identifiers such as the IMEI number and the MAC address).
Provide easy access to our websites.
This helps us to direct you, share with you our content within websites such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube or Pinterest or allow you to share content that is of your interest. To the extent we use such technology, these ‘social media plug-ins’ may store cookies and similar technology on your computer or other device. This means that the social media websites may access this information (including your IP address), may identify that you interacted with the BMS website.
Improve our marketing communications to you.
Certain cookies, such as web beacons or tracking pixels, may be used by third party systems, such as customer relationship management systems or other service providers who help us manage e-mail campaigns. Those trackers enable us to better understand the success of our communications and the relevance of the content that we share with you. This may allow us to reduce the number of e-mails that we send you and provide you with content, scientific information, or initiatives that are more tailored to your interests.
Collect and analyse advertising campaigns.
We use, and allow certain 3rd parties to use, other technologies, such as web beacons, on our Websites and in our digital communications to tailor advertising, or to measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. A web beacon is a clear GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) that a company can place on a website or in digital communications to allow it or a third party (such as an Internet advertising, audience measurement, or social media company). As a result, we and these 3rd parties may collect and use information about your online visits to our Websites or engagement with our digital communications.
How can you object or refuse cookies?
Subject to the law of your country, in particular in the European Union, we will either inform you, ask your prior permission (opt-in) before placing tracking technologies on your device, or provide you with a right to object (opt-out) for the purposes that we describe in this section. Your web browser, e-mail software (such as Microsoft outlook, or Google Gmail) and other clients that you use can be set to manage cookies and similar trackers and even reject them by default. Do bear in mind that if you set your browser to automatically reject cookies, your user experience when visiting websites will not be the same: your preferences may not be remembered, some functionality may be lost and you may not be able to access certain areas or features of the websites.
Do-Not-Track Signals
When you visit our Websites, the collection of traffic data occurs even when do-not-track signals are enabled on your internet browser. Under certain circumstances, we may be able to identify you when you visit our websites. For example, if you register on our website, we may be able to link your Personal Information to previous visits on our websites depending on whether our website cookies from earlier visits are still stored on your computer. For more information about do not track signals, visit
https://www.allaboutdnt.com .
Interest-Based Advertising (IBA)
We may use 3rd party advertising companies to tailor online and mobile advertisements to you based on predictions about your interests. Your interests could come from several sources including your browsing activity, such as visits to our websites from your browser and device or your response to online advertisements. These 3rd parties collect and store data about your interests based on your online and mobile activity using different technologies, such as placing or recognizing cookies on your browser, recognizing device identifiers, or using pixel tags. These 3rd parties may also use these types of technologies to recognize you across the devices you use.
For interest-based ads, to opt-out, you may click on the "AdChoices" icon within the advertisement or Website which will take you to a page where you can learn more about interest-based advertising and manage or opt out of the online targeting technology from the 3rd parties that we work with. Ad Choices Opt-outs are browser and device-specific; therefore, you should repeat your selections across each device and browser on you wish to be opted out. If you opt-out, you may still see advertising from Bristol Myers Squibb online or in mobile applications, but the 3rd parties we work with will not serve our ads based on predictions about your interests.  Also, if you delete or remove cookies or apps, your opt-out selections will not be stored.  You should review your opt-out preferences periodically, or update your choices to include new participating companies. In some cases, the 3rd parties we work with may still collect data about your browsing activity and mobile application activity for other purposes but will not use this information to select our ads that you see.
More information:
To learn more about interest-based advertising and how to opt out in desktop and mobile, please visit
https://optout.aboutads.info/#/
and
https://optout.networkadvertising.org/#/ .  To opt out of interest-based ads on mobile, you can download the AppChoices app at
www.aboutads.info/appchoices . Some parties we work with, such as social media platforms or other 3rd party technology platforms, have their own opt-out procedure. You should review the privacy policies of those properties to learn more about how you can opt-out of interest-based ads on those websites.
Retargeting
The data captured through the tracking technologies used by our Websites may be shared with our 3rd party advertising technology partners in order to provide you with targeted advertising that may appear on other websites you visit on the internet. These partners use technology to match cookies on your computer with cookies placed on your computer by other websites you may visit or have visited.  These partners may also use cookies and other technologies (e.g. web beacons) to recognize you across the devices you use, such as a mobile phone or laptop.
Below we have identified the main cookies and categories that BMS uses on our websites and platforms.
For more details on the cookies that we use, you can read our cookie table below or, where applicable, on the website that you use by accessing the relevant cookie notice.
16. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY NOTICE
BMS may update this notice from time to time by posting any revisions on this website.  Where any material revisions are made, BMS may place a prominent notice on this website and when legally required to do so, will directly notify you.  You are bound by any such revisions and should therefore periodically visit this page to review the most current privacy statement.
17. CONTACT US
If you have questions about this Notice, or want to obtain more information about our privacy practices, please contact our Data Protection Officer at
dpo@bms.com , via this form or contact us by postal mail at:
Contact
Name of the affiliate/ controller
For residents in the United States you can
contact BMS at :
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
P.O. Box 640
Palatine, IL 60078-0640
800-332-2056
United States
For residents in the United States you can
contact Celgene at :
Celgene Corporation
86 Morris Avenue
Summit, NJ 07901
United States
BMS Global Employee Privacy Notice
If you are an applicant, you can read more details here:
https://www.bms.com/privacy-policy.html#job .
For questions about this notice or data protection as a worker, please refer to the
contact us
section.
Click
here
to download or print a copy of this BMS employee privacy notice.
What You Will Learn in This Notice
This notice is specific to the use of your personal data by Bristol Myers Squibb (“BMS”, “we”, “us”, “our”) if you are or were part of our workforce. It explains what personal data processing activities are conducted at BMS worldwide covering BMS direct employees, consultants, contractors, interns and third parties as defined in this Notice – collectively called ‘ workers’  or ‘ employees’  (or “ you ”, “ your ”, “ yours ”) in this notice (“ Employee   Notice ” or “ Notice ”). We use the term “ processing activities ” or “ use ” to refer to accessing, collecting, storing, transferring or any other use of your personal data.
Click on the icons or text below to find out more about how, why, and where BMS uses your data:
Who is the Controller
The type of data we process
How BMS protects your data
Legal reasons for using your data
Why we process your data
How we obtain your data
How long we keep your data
Who do we share your data with
Your privacy rights
1. INTRODUCTION – HOW TO READ THIS NOTICE
In this Notice, we provide you with an overview of how and why we collect your personal data - also known as personal information. We also inform you about your privacy rights related to our use of your data.
You should read this Employee Notice in combination with the BMS  General Privacy Notice  which explains the collective privacy standards and commitments that apply to all processing of personal data at BMS. It is available on the footer of our corporate  www.bms.com  websites for markets where we have a presence or operate.
Who it applies to and our other notices
Before you start reading this Notice
Who is the audience?
This notice applies:
during your contract and after its termination , as a new hire, a current or past worker, including an employee, consultant or autonomous worker, retiree;
to contractors , such as interns, agency workers, consultants; and
to third parties
whose information is provided to us in connection with the employment or work relationship (for example, referees or emergency contact information).
Country-specific notices
As a supplement to this notice, there may be country specific BMS documentation covering individual country laws or processes that might impact the use of your personal data at your specific work location. These documents can be accessed through your local intranet or HR business partner.
Relevance of my personal data
The nature and the categories of the personal data that BMS processes about you can differ, depending on your role and your relationship with BMS. We try to point out these differences where possible but if there are processing activities specific to your role at BMS or to the country where you reside, we will provide you with additional ‘point in time data’ wherever possible.
Example:  Most processing activities related to BMS employee benefits are not applicable to consultants, contractors, interns, agency workers or autonomous workers who are employed by third parties and then contracted by BMS. This notice covers personal data that BMS
controls and processes . Contractors and consultants should therefore review privacy notices provided by their own employers to understand how their data is processed.
2. WHO IS THE CONTROLLER OF YOUR DATA
A controller decides why and how to process your personal data. However, central teams at BMS located in another country (for example, teams in the US and support services provided by our authorized business partners) may also access and process your personal data as described in this notice. For each activity, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its affiliates will act as controller together or jointly for using your data.
Note : If you have an employment contract, the BMS legal entity who is your employer, or who has the contract with your employer, is the controller of your personal data. If you are a consultant, contractor, intern or independent worker), then the entity listed in your employer’s contract with BMS is the controller.
3. CATEGORIES – WHAT TYPE OF DATA BMS PROCESSES ABOUT YOU
This section describes the type of personal data we collect for our processing activities, which may vary depending on your role at BMS.
We describe this personal data as
“Work-Related Data ” or “ Sensitive Work-Related Data ” that BMS needs for the creation of your work contracts and to run our day-to-day work activities. Remember, depending on where you live, the relevant data protection law in your jurisdiction may define personal data differently from the descriptions used in this notice.
We use the categories of personal data in the following context:
Onboarding & HR day-to-day
Compensation, benefits & performance
Security, IT, devices, training
Surveys, events, images, videos
Sensitive data
Environmental, health & safety
Data for legal & compliance
Family & your relatives’ data
Roles & positions, relocation, leaving
Note : Most data we use about you is necessary for our day-to-day operations. In certain cases, you might decide to participate in activities that are not mandatory, such as attending events, accessing benefits, apply to internal jobs, responding to surveys or sharing your image or video recordings with BMS. In this case, we will let you know what your options are before processing your data.
You can learn more about our purposes and why we use your data in
section 4 .
The categories of Work-Related Data
When collecting and using your data as a BMS worker, most categories
detailed below
are relevant to you if you are an employee. If you don’t have a contract with us but provide services to us, the categories below will not be relevant to you, for example if you are hired by a third party agency, if you are a consultant or an independent worker.
Categories of Work Related Data
Onboarding data
Most of the personal data collected at BMS is done during the onboarding phase. The data collected during this stage allows BMS to build your profile and enables you to work at BMS. Examples of data collected are:
CV, past experiences, external affiliations;
BMS ID, login details, professional phone number;
current and past roles within the organization;
your hiring manager, HR business partner, department, functions;
employment contract and current employment situation (temporary,  permanent,  practice), group and projects you belong to;
initial and termination date, offer of employment, contractual conditions, signature, salary grade and bonus, promotions.
You can read more information about the data we collected during your recruitment in our
General Privacy Notice .
Contact and identification data
Your contact and ID information includes your:
full name, title, location;
postal code and/or personal email address, personal and professional phone numbers;
date of birth;
gender, nationality, photo;
government-issued identification (national ID, driving license, passport, professional license number as applicable);
unique personal identifiers, such as your assigned unique BMS ID.
Employment information
Data related to your previous or current role(s) at BMS, such as:
previous or internal applications;
resignation, termination dates;
your resume or CV;
office address, department;
performance and disciplinary records;
academic/professional qualifications;
immigration status and documentation;
residency permits and visas, occupational health assessments, work-related accidents, training data;
occupational health assessments and work-related accidents, training information.
Educational and professional data
education information and professional qualifications;
professional networks;
training records;
employment status;
skills and work experience;
programs, such as training, certifications, coaching, driving improvements if your role requires to drive a vehicle (i.e.: logistics, customer visits);
publications and activities;
awards and recognitions;
teaching posts, board memberships, membership or directorship in various professional organizations, associations or other units, referrals and other relevant professional information where needed.
Family & data of your relatives and third parties
You may share contact details of family or relatives in case of relocation, services, accidents or emergency situations, or BMS may request that you inform us about potential conflict of interests which can includes contact details and positions of third parties with whom you belong or have professional interactions with. This includes:
family or your relatives’ contact data, including e-mail, personal phone number, home address;
full name and specific needs for residence of partners and family members.
Conflict of interest data
BMS may also request to inform us about your potential conflict of interests which can include:
contact details, positions of third parties with whom you belong or have professional interactions with;
shares, stocks, participations in or partnerships with non-BMS affiliated organizations, including serving as director or officer of such organization;
any potential gifts, financial interest or advantage, honorarium or other remuneration you may receive outside of BMS.
Sign-in, analytics and device data
When using BMS or third-party devices, platforms, intranet, systems and technologies, we use your personal data to provide you access to, tailor the services provided to, and to protect the security of, our systems. We use the following types of data:
sign-in and log activity data;
device ID and IP address, usage data;
information accessible in your profile;
abnormal use of devices warnings, for BMS platforms, intranet and systems for security and protection of BMS assets;
application or interaction data in BMS or third-party platforms;
personal data stored on BMS devices, platforms, intranet and systems, such as documents you upload and your emails.
You can read more information about the use of your personal data online or digitally in
section 5 below .
Financial information, compensation and benefits
We collect financial information about you for pay-roll, benefit and insurance purposes, which can include your:
bank and account details;
salary and compensation data;
travel and expenses for work and authorized trips for reimbursement purposes;
stock options, stocks, or company shares;
pension fund related data;
health plans, benefits and insurance allocations;
severance package or benefits that apply when your contract with BMS comes to an end.
Data about you that we make public
There are instances when you agree or where we must disclose your personal information publicly on our corporate websites, public registries or public facing platforms – this will depend on your participation at BMS events, posts on social media, and your position and role at BMS. For example, your:
full name, e-mail address;
position within BMS, CV or professional background;
compensation and benefits;
position in a board of directors or your power to represent BMS;
photos, audio or video recordings;
quotes and posts on social media about corporate news, scientific research or events.
Other data
Tax status, information related to work attendance, travel and expenses, emergency contact details, compensation, hours of work, holidays and benefits related information, CCTV data and investigation related information.
The categories of Sensitive Work-Related Data
Sensitive Work-Related Data
Health, welfare and leave information
This information if needed for managing your leave and compensation:
number of sick days;
information contained in a doctor’s certificate / medical certificate for sick leave;
details of any known disability / workplace accessibility needs, for purposes of salary payment, workforce planning, and compliance with legal obligations;
work-related accident information, compensation, work safety and compliance with legal obligations (such as reporting obligations);
personal health status for commercial insurance or participation in various activities for example if you participate in the work-out, health programs or for support of your critical illness.
Vaccination or health status
In certain occasions, where applicable and permitted by applicable law, in particular for public health or protection against diseases (i.e.: pandemic situations) BMS may collect your health data, such as:
presence at work or at home;
vaccination or health status.
In most cases, BMS will collect your data only indirectly without the need to obtain health information to protect against the spread of infectious diseases or to ensure a safe working environment.
Background check data
This includes:
background checks or criminal records in the context of logistics and packing using airline companies;
creditworthy information;
document certification authenticity;
recommendations by previous employers or third parties.
where permitted or required by applicable law and where relevant to your role
Religious beliefs
This can be collected or required by applicable law:
for tax declaration purposes;
as written in your ID card or passport, or
internal purposes if you share this information voluntarily;
Most often this data will be stored anonymously.
Race and ethnicity data
Where this is required or permitted by applicable law, unless you share it voluntarily for a certain defined purpose. We will usually only collect and store such sensitive data anonymously for equal opportunities monitoring purposes or if you decide to share it for a defined purpose.
Sexual orientation data
Where this is required or permitted by applicable laws or you have voluntarily provided the information to us. For example:
marriage, maternity, paternity, parental, bereavement and other similar leaves relating to family or your personal situation;
marital status, family or relatives contact related information.
Most often this data will be stored anonymously unless you decide to share it for a defined purpose.
Other sensitive Work Related Data
Depending on the law of your country, BMS collects other categories of personal data about you that can be considered sensitive, such as:
your health information if you participate in pilot or test programs in the context of digital health initiatives;
bank details, social security number, driver’s license number, email content and text messages, State ID card number, passport number, creditworthy information, precise geolocation data;
dietary restrictions or health conditions;
on rare occasions, genetic or biological data in the context of laboratory tests to protect your health if you are exposed to biomaterials or chemical compounds;
biometric data, such as your fingerprint data to enter into our premises or facilities.
Only limited authorized teams and approved third parties will have access to such your sensitive personal data.
4. PURPOSES – WHY WE PROCESS YOUR DATA AND IN WHAT CONTEXT
This section describes the main types of activities where BMS processes your personal data and the context in which BMS uses it. Our main processing activities consist in:
handling your data for day-to-day operations , such as for onboarding you as a new hire or worker, handling your payroll, requests, enabling access to our systems and intranet and BMS social media platforms to interact with other colleagues, for internal interactions, and, if applicable, performance reviews;
offering benefits
such as learning, career development programs, fitness, rebates on goods, wellbeing programs, BMS or external events or initiatives that you can access or participate in depending on your role;
implementing appropriate security measures  and infrastructures that prevent data losses, ensure compliance with applicable laws, maintain whistleblowing hotlines and channels to report misconducts, conflict of interest or unlawful behaviors which may require preserving information as evidence to comply with applicable employment legislation; and,
processing in the context of our working culture and environment
as a multinational company, such as participating in diversity and inclusion groups, activities or discussions or responding to surveys about the working environment.
Details about the context in which we use your data
Category of data
The Purpose for use
Relocation, local assignments of workers
BMS processes your data for the following reasons:
managing your relocation to other locations;
to apply for a working visa or residence permit;
for employment related information for compliance with applicable laws, such as tax filing purposes; passport or other citizenship and right to work documentation or information collected for visa and immigration purposes; or
family or relatives related data for insurance, travel, costs and expenses purposes.
Onboarding and administration
When joining BMS as a new hire, to:
register your emergency contacts and emergency notifications in the event of business continuity response measures or for workspace security;
determine incentive and corporate credit card eligibility;
establish worker location, to manage internal transfers within BMS and off-boarding/termination, for business travel purposes;
manage the workflow, such as assigning, managing, administering projects;
enable organizational development, preparation, management, and use of an internal business directory, organization charts;
record trade union membership where required by local law.
Talent acquisition and recruitment
After your application has succeeded, BMS will use your information necessary to process your job application, record your information in our systems, as an applicant to internal opportunities for roles, projects or initiatives.
Attendance administration
In some cases, BMS may record your on-site attendance in the workplace in compliance with internal policies and as permitted by local law.  This includes data necessary to record and administer your working hours, attendance and overtime application, approval and reimbursement when applicable or compliance with the applicable BMS flexible way of working policy.
Leave management
To enable your leave application for paid annual leave and unpaid leave:
health and medical data, such as the number of sick days;
doctor’s certificate/medical certificate;
information on work-related accidents;
insurance claims;
information on disability;
information on marriage, maternity and parental, and bereavement leave.
Compensation and benefits
To comply with legal requirements and BMS labor policies related to compensation and benefits, which includes:
offering of social security insurance, pension, housing fund and other flexible benefit programs and wellness initiatives, such as commercial medical insurance, annual medical examination and other allowances, based on your jurisdiction;
offering well-being services, rebates or points for goods and services, car fleet services;
administering employee welfare activities that participants may voluntarily participate in (including welfare provided for former employees), such as team-building activities, recreative and event activities including with your family, labor union activities, and aid service, etc. when applicable.
Learning and development
To manage talent development, administer and track training and awareness activities.
Performance and recognition
to enhance performance evaluation, promote personnel development, improve worker efficiency;
to set performance objectives, evaluate performance;
provide you with recognition and awards, to manage promotions.
Working culture and BMS events, surveys and activities
to improve the working culture at BMS and provide you with a friendly working environment;
to conduct surveys, hold events and other activities that you could participate in voluntarily.
Travel and expense reimbursement
to book travel and accommodation;
to review and evaluate reimbursement applications and the supporting documents including transaction records for business expenses;
to make reimbursement payment to an employee’s bank account;
to ensure compliance with travel & business expenses policies.
Safe work environment, information security, acceptable usage purposes and fraud detection and prevention
The nature of the work at BMS requires to protect the health & safety of its employees, data, or infrastructures. BMS will access your data in particular to:
ensure security and systems monitoring (for example through video (CCTV) recording);
ensure the security and integrity of BMS facilities, IT systems and data;
notify you by phone or electronic notifications about events or incidents happening while you are traveling for work;
administer, monitor and/or manage appropriate usage of BMS premises, property and equipment, such as requirements of identity verification and access control to device, hardware, software, internet, network, infrastructure, cell phone, mail service, or other facilities.
Protecting health & safety of its workers or third parties
BMS may apply internal policies to protect against serious diseases or threats in the context of:
exposure to chemical or biological compounds in our manufacturing sites, or
global, regional, or national public health, for instances in the event of pandemic situations.
In such cases, BMS may collect, or require third parties to collect information that demonstrate your health or vaccination status.
Compliance and regulatory purposes
to ensure corporate compliance requirements and policies are met, including conflict of interest declaration and review, audit, completion of mandatory training;
to manage, review and respond to complaints, investigations and disciplinary matters, to establish, exercise or defend legal claims or other legal rights;
monitoring and tracking of the different cases and their resolution, and definition of the nature or cause of the investigation;
to comply with applicable laws (such as tax deductions and declarations), regulations and requests from governmental agencies, and to adhere to industry standards.
Equal opportunity and diversity monitoring / initiatives
race, gender or ethnicity data such as information contained in your passport or other citizenship and right to work documentation or information collected for visa and immigration purposes or to comply with local regulations;
sexual orientation, diversity data where this has been provided voluntarily to BMS.
Understanding the diversity of our workforce
We collect certain demographic data mostly in aggregate, such as:
race, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, veteran and disability status to help us understand the diversity of our workforce and to support core business diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives;
in some circumstances, we may also need to use this data to comply with government regulations.
Note : we generally collect this information on an aggregate or on a voluntary basis, and you are not required to provide it unless it is necessary for us to comply with a legal obligation. We will not share your data without your permission unless we are legally required to do so.
Run security & compliance scans or verifications
In certain countries, BMS will monitor your individual activity only if we have a reasonable, proportionate, and robust legal reason in place. Typical examples of where BMS might monitor your activity are:
your physical movement using CCTV, badge data or sign-in sheets – this is for the security of our employees, visitors and BMS property;
your interactions with customers (for example HCPs) - this is only conducted for specific job roles at BMS and is done for training, verification, and quality assurance reasons;
network scans including your electronic activity when using our communications systems and networks. This can cover logfiles, use of BMS assets and systems. The reason for monitoring might be network and device management, protecting our intellectual property (IP), protection against cyber-attacks, certain legal obligations, but always where permitted by law;
for specific investigations, for example if an employee is strongly suspected of breaching BMS policies.
This type of monitoring will always fully comply with the law and will only process the least amount of data needed to complete the investigation.
Automated decision making
In general, BMS does not make employment decisions based solely on automated processing (including profiling) of employees. If this were to happen, for example using Artificial Intelligence, then BMS will make you aware of this activity before any of your personal data is processed.
You can learn more about the technologies we use in
section 9 .
Criminal records and background checks and verification
BMS run background verifications to confirm the accuracy of documentation you provide to BMS during and after your hiring process, but only where permitted by the law and where relevant to your role.
Examples : criminal records, education, employment verification, creditworthiness, conflict of interests checks.
Other processing activities
BMS may require you to provide certain personal data (such as your name, address, and ID number) of other individuals such as your family members, for other purposes such as:
managing your employment relationship with us;
contacting you or your personal contacts during emergency;
declaring conflict of interest;
filing tax returns;
processing any corporate group insurance plans;
participate in BMS activities or enjoy benefits provided by BMS.
Note:
As a BMS Worker, you are responsible for any sharing with BMS of personal data about persons outside BMS – for example, providing BMS with information about family members for health insurance purposes, relocation services, conflict of interests, verification to past employers, emergency contacts and so on. Therefore, it is your responsibility to inform the third party about such disclosure or where required, obtain their prior permission, and provide them a copy of this privacy notice.
When disclosing the personal data of these individuals, you will be acting on their behalf.
5. ENTERPRISE PLATFORMS & DEVICES – HOW WE USE YOUR DATA
As a BMS Worker, there are many times when we need to process or share your data using digital means. In most cases, your online connection to BMS systems is securely managed through the BMS single sign-on (SSO) process or through our VPN (virtual private network). You may access other systems, such as Outlook or Workday using double factor authentication.
For more information about how we collect personal data from visitors to our websites or users of our products and services, please review our  General Privacy Notice .
Online information that we may collect when you use our sites
Type of activity
Data categories
Purpose for use
BMS intranet, websites and applications
Login data
(BMS ID, login details for SSO),
Analytics data
The main use of your personal data for our intranet sites are for:
enabling you to connect to our systems;
audience measurements and aggregate websites’ traffic and analytics.
Eligible programs,
benefits or activities run by third parties
Eligibility contact data
(BMS e-mail, BMS ID, full name, role if needed).
BMS shares your contact details with trusted third parties to offer various benefits to workers who are eligible to access such programs.
Matching your profile for internal opportunities
Application data
(full name, BMS ID, your skills, interests, current role)
Professional data
(such as your CV/resume, data from 3 rd
party platforms such as LinkedIn).
When you enter your professional data into BMS HR systems, BMS can use that data to propose internal opportunities at BMS that might be relevant to you. When doing so, BMS sometimes uses third parties to help
match your profile
to the most suited available job roles. When we do use external providers and/or software for this activity, you will receive more information prior to our use of such data.
Read more in
section 9
about artificial intelligence and
section 10
about your privacy rights.
Bring your own device (BYOD)
Device ID
and other data needed to secure the connection to BMS application and systems.
Where permitted under BMS policies, you may also use your own device (Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)) or other approved devices to perform your job at BMS. This requires BMS to access your personal data to enable your device, including the installation of BMS approved software for information protection purposes.
Cybersecurity & information protection
Aggregate security data, system monitoring data and contact details and usage data
BMS uses a variety of supporting applications and teams to ensure all data remains available, secure, and confidential when you use BMS approved, technologies and systems. To achieve this goal, BMS processes aggregate data for the purposes of updates, diagnostics, tests, and the security of your laptop or devices.
Example : To prevent data losses, phishing or scam attempts or for compliance purposes, we may send you notifications, or refresher training requests.
6. DATA SOURCES – HOW DO WE OBTAIN AND SHARE DATA ABOUT YOU
BMS collects personal data directly from you for most of our processing activities, although sometimes we obtain personal data automatically via certain internal BMS sites or indirectly from alternative sources.
For example : we collect personal data indirectly from service providers (such as recruitment agents and background checking services), online platforms, government bodies (criminal records, wage garnishments) or authorities where required by law (such as tax authorities) to manage your work relationship with us.
We also collect information about you automatically, through physical or online security, systems monitoring (for example through video (CCTV) recording) or building access control logs when you enter the workplace or in other similar contexts. BMS will always strive to make you aware of this type of processing before collection of your personal information takes place.
7. DATA TRANSFERS – WHO WE SHARE YOUR DATA WITH AND WHO CAN ACCESS IT
Only limited BMS teams and approved third parties or authorities who need to manage or obtain your information may access Work-Related Data. When your personal data is more sensitive, BMS will apply more restrictions and protections to protect it. For details on our cross-border transfer mechanisms, please see the relevant section in our  General Privacy Notice  available on all bms.com websites.
Work-Related Data we share inside the BMS group
Inside the BMS group
BMS locations
BMS is headquartered in the
United States , with operations in
Europe ,
Asia ,
Australia
and in
North and South America
– all collectively known as the
“BMS group ” (of companies).
Given the global nature of our company, processing of employee data occurs across several countries. Many of our HR processing activities are centralized in the United States (for example in our Tampa office), but we also have centralized HR activities in Australia, China, India and the United Kingdom. Your data will be accessed by local and central teams who may be located in such locations.
You can also find the main locations from where we operate here:
https://www.bms.com/about-us/our-company/worldwide-facilities.html .
Contracts and principles to secure the transfer
Binding Corporate Rules
(BCRs) is a recognized mechanism that allows the transfer and disclosure of personal data across entities that are part of the same company group. Our
Binding Corporate Rules Policy
provide you with an overview of our global privacy program and commitment to maintaining high data protection standards when processing personal data transferred to different countries within the BMS Group of companies.
Transfers of Work-Related Data also occur on the basis of appropriate arrangements including data transfer agreements, local or regional transfer schemes or, when appropriate or required, your consent.
Teams or function accessing your data
BMS teams who can access your information include:
HR departments
and hiring managers in the context of the employment relationship;
BMS functions , such as finance, internal audit, IT, the law department and records management in the context of their functions and responsibilities;
corporate directory
(whitepages): all the employees of the BMS group of companies will have access to the business contact details (name and surname, role and function, manager, email, where applicable phone numbers and business address).
Work-Related Data we share outside the BMS group
Outside the BMS group
Why we need to disclose your data
BMS partners with many organizations that are specialized in areas such as IT, security, tax and accounting, payroll, providing benefits, running programs, insurance, pension or other services. In other cases, we disclose your data to authorities.
Approved third parties
BMS engages with a variety of third-party service providers to help support the services we provide to our workers. For many of our HR functions, the third-party service providers are embedded within our HR functions (for example as consultants providing IT Support services) but in other instances, you will have a direct relationship with the external vendor – for example, insurance providers, health, and wellness Apps and so on.
Governmental bodies or authorities
BMS may share Work-Related Data that includes your contact details, correspondence, internal or external communications with authorities or for dispute resolution purposes, claims or investigations, to comply with applicable laws or to protect BMS’ business or interests.
Security
BMS puts all third-party vendors through a series of rigorous security and privacy checks, rregardless of whether the vendor works directly for BMS providing a support service or whether the relationship with the vendor is directly between you and them. In addition, we have data protection clauses included in all our contracts with vendors, where needed, to ensure that the applicable data protection legislation is followed regardless of the country in which your data is processed.
8. OUR LEGAL BASES FOR PROCESSING YOUR PERSONAL DATA
In this section, we describe our legal justifications (commonly referred to as “legal basis”) for the use of your data related to each of purpose for using it. We will use the legal basis that is most appropriate for the purpose and circumstances related to such processing. Below, we have explained which legal bases we may choose or have to use when using your personal information.
Note:
Depending on the country or State where you reside, the law of your country may not require that BMS justifies how it uses your data (such as in the US or Hong-Kong). This applies to ordinary use of your data, transfers outside of your residence, or when sharing or disclosing your Work-Related Data with a third party. If you are from a jurisdiction or a State that requires a legal basis for processing personal data (such as China, the EEA, UK, or Brazil), our legal basis will depend on the personal data concerned and the context in which we collect it. Where required by applicable law, BMS will obtain your prior consent for certain processing activities – for example, using cookies or trackers, when using your images or recording materials, disclosing your personal data outside of your country of residence or disclosing it with BMS-approved third parties.
Specific examples of usual legal bases
BMS relies on a legal basis for each of our processing activities for most of the jurisdictions where BMS operates, whether relating to Work Related Data or Sensitive Work Related data. However, the privacy laws in some countries may not require the same legal basis for our processing activities as we have described in this notice. For instance, we may use consent or contractual necessity instead of legitimate interest when the local law does not recognize such a legal concept.
Our most used legal bases are:
contractual necessity : in practice, this means that BMS needs to process your data to honor our commitments as stated in your arrangement with BMS, for example providing your personal data to our third-party payroll, pension or insurance provider;
compliance with a legal obligation : there are many times where BMS has a legal obligation to use, retain or disclose your Work Related Data. We will make this clear at the time and inform you whether provision of your personal data is mandatory or not, as well as the possible consequences if it is not provided;
prior consent : where BMS conducts optional activities or when the law requires it, we will inform you and BMS may require your
prior consent . Unless the nature of the activity or of the data requires it, your local law prescribes or allows otherwise, you will have the right to withdraw your consent at any time;
public disclosures : if you agree to disclose your Work Related Data publicly or if BMS has a duty to do so, then future control over that data may be compromised. BMS will provide you with a notice explaining the processing activity where your personal data may become publicly available and if you have a choice of whether to participate or not.
Legal basis
Description and examples when using our legal basis
Performance of a contract with you
In most cases, we justify using your data for
HR management
as described in our HR related policies, handbooks and other rules that may apply to your role at BMS.
Example : Compensation & benefits, performance, ensuring compliance with employee handbooks, SOPs, internal procedures, for sick leave, internal career development and opportunities, running our daily operations, login to and use our IT systems.
Legal obligations, investigations and compliance
We use your personal data when BMS complies with its
legal obligations
related to employment which can include Sensitive Work Related Data.
Example : in the context of tax laws, regulations preventing anti-bribery or conflict of interests, public health, for security, health & safety at work, investigations or internal or third party claims, audits, good clinical, laboratory and manufacturing practices (GxPs). This includes sharing your Work Related Data with third parties or competent authorities or bodies.
Legitimate interest or use
BMS has legitimate interests to use your personal data for identified purposes, always assessing that there is an appropriate balance between your right to privacy and BMS’s interest to conduct its business operations.
In general,
BMS considers it has a legitimate interest to use your Work related Data to achieve its immediate and long-term business and commercial goals and outcomes, such as in the context of:
recruitment and candidate selection, HR management;
protecting our work case management, running investigations to evaluate misconducts or non-compliance with internal policies or procedures, retaining data for protecting against claims and disputes, business continuity, pension or retirement administration;
celebrations of special occasions (recognizing years of service, birthday), using intranets, corporate directories, make your BMS profile available internally or to our approved third parties;
prevention and detection of data loss, crime or fraud;
manage and forecasting our finances;
conduct surveys, analytics, improve facility accesses, workforce optimization, security of our systems or prevent data losses.
Note :  BMS uses its legitimate interest when it is proportionate, aligned to, or would not conflict with, your reasonable expectations, and does not undermine your individual rights, interests or freedoms.
Consent
In the context of voluntary initiatives or benefits where we obtain your
prior permission
to use or share your personal data for a specific activity, such as events, picture or recordings, connecting to third party platforms or services.
Public interest
To protect against serious diseases or threats in the context of global, regional, or national public health, for instances in the event of pandemic situations. In most cases, accessing or disclosing your personal data in this context will be based directly on applicable laws.
Vital interest
On rare occasions, we use your vital interest to protect your, or the vital interest of third parties, for accident, security or to prevent imminent threats to your or third parties’ health and safety at the workplace or outside our premises for emergencies or insurance purposes.
This list is not exhaustive and shall provide you with an overview of how we justify the processing of your personal data.
9. DO WE USE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) OR SIMILAR TECHNOLOGIES?
BMS has developed internal policies and guidance on responsible use of AI. When using AI tools involving Work-Related Data, we will apply globally recognized data privacy & protection principles. When using third party technology, we ensure to apply:
(i) BMS principles on responsible use of AI;
(ii) appropriate technical and security measures;
(iii) contractual arrangement to protect your personal data.
BMS will provide you with more detailed information in a privacy notice, and if required, obtain your prior consent before using such technologies. You can read more information about your rights, including your right to object or to request human intervention, in  section 10 .
More information and examples of our use of digital technologies
Currently, BMS does not use technologies that qualify as Artificial Intelligence (AI) when using worker personal data, such as algorithms that have a sufficient degree of autonomy to make important or significant decisions about you in the context of work without human oversight before any decision is made. In other words, BMS does not use such technologies without decisions being made by humans which can affect you as a BMS worker.
However, we do use certain tools and technologies that allow us to improve efficiency in our daily operations. BMS is looking at digital solutions, automation and advanced technologies that can:
reduce manual tasks , to support our operations and drive efficiency at work;
improve your well-being , safety at the workplace, mental health;
assess risk profiles
to comply with internal BMS policies and applicable laws, such for, anti-bribery, drug promotion or preventing conflict of interest;
protect BMS systems , including in the context of cybersecurity or data loss prevention programs;
facilitate the
selection of potential candidates
for recruiters’ review when applying on our official careers website:
https://www.careers.bms.com ;
send
automated instant messages
and communications through intranet or online chatbots, calendar scheduling bots, or other online technologies. Internal chatbots may use our enterprise directory to refer our teams to the appropriate subject matter experts;
match your BMS profile
for career development opportunities.
Example : BMS may use machine learning solutions that can enable career or learning opportunities at BMS, on a voluntary basis, including to suggest internal projects, reach assignments, tour of duties or job opportunities that match your profile and to propose boosting your career at BMS.
10. INDIVIDUAL CHOICES – RIGHTS AND ACCESS TO YOUR DATA
This section describes the rights you may have and the potential actions you can take in relation to how BMS processes your personal data.
You have several privacy rights in relation to the processing of your personal data at BMS, but these will depend on the country where you reside and on the legal basis that we used to process your personal data. Exercising your rights is usually free of charge, except if your request is excessive or requires disproportionate efforts, in which case we may ask you for a reasonable fee.
BMS assesses every request received based on who you are and the jurisdiction or State in which you are based. If we cannot comply with your request, we will let you know the reasons why. You can always contact BMS at
dpo@bms.com
to find out more about your rights and how you can exercise them.
The rights described below are not absolute and will only apply in certain circumstances.  This means that we may be unable (for example, due to legal requirements) or not obligated to act on your request.  In some cases, we may need to collect additional personal data from you to verify your identity before we provide access or delete your information, for example a copy of your government-issued identification.
You can read more about your individual rights
The rights described below are not absolute and will only apply in certain circumstances.  This means that we may be unable (for example, due to legal requirements) or not obligated to act on your request.  In some cases, we may need to collect additional personal data from you to verify your identity before we provide access or delete your information, for example a copy of your government-issued identification.
Right of access
You have the right to contact BMS and request confirmation that we process your personal data, why we process your data, and be provided with access to that data. Please remember that this is not an ‘absolute right’; there are situations where we must remove or redact data to protect other data subjects and company confidentiality.
Right to rectification
You may have the right to update/correct your personal data, for example if it is inaccurate, incomplete, or not up to date.
Right to erasure (right to be forgotten)
You may have the right to have your personal data deleted. There are exceptions to this right, for example when we are legally obliged to retain your personal data for a specific time-period, or when your data is disclosed publicly.
Right to restrict the processing
You have the right to request that we restrict, suspend, or cease the processing of your personal data. Exceptions also apply here. If BMS lifts the restriction, we will inform you beforehand and explain our reasoning.
Right to data portability
You have the right to receive or have your personal data transferred to a third party in a structured, commonly used, and machine-readable format.
Note : This right may not apply when your data is processed based on the legitimate interest of BMS or in certain jurisdictions.
Right to withdraw consent
When we process your personal data based on your consent, you have the right to withdraw it at any time and BMS will stop processing your personal data. However, the withdrawal of consent does not impact our processing of your personal data prior to the removal of your consent.
Right to object
You may have the right to object to BMS processing your personal data. This is also not an absolute right and your right to object will depend on the nature of the processing by BMS..
Account deletion
Where applicable, you may have the right to request to delete your user account. This applies for example when using an account on a platform that is operated by a third party. In this case, please contact the platform directly to exercise your rights.
Right to complain to data protection authorities
In some countries, you may have the right to complain directly to the data protection authority in your jurisdiction, if you believe that BMS is processing your personal data unlawfully and/or is violating your rights. The privacy rights section of our BMS
General Privacy Notice
describes how to contact the competent authority or relevant contact in your country where you reside.
Actions you can take about your personal data
I would like to
Tools you can use to manage your data
Update my data
Workday, mybms & e-mail.  If your personal data changes during the course of your time at BMS, please raise a ticket or connect to your Workday account  to update that data or contact your HR business partner to note those changes.
Access my data or receive a copy of my data
Workday, mybms, & e-mail.  Workday and the relevant applications available in mybms allows you to see the data that we hold about you and download a copy. If we have data that you cannot access via Workday, then you may make a request by emailing your HR Business Partner or by using the contact details provided in the
contact us  section below.
Note : we might need to refuse access to personal data in certain cases, such as when providing access might infringe someone else’s privacy rights.
Delete my data or withdraw consent
Workday, mybms & e-mail.  You can ask that we delete personal data that you believe is inaccurate or no longer relevant by emailing your HR Business Partner or by using the contact details provided in the  contact us  section below.
In addition, you can go into Workday and remove some of the data you have chosen to share with us, such as your photo, demographic data, emergency contacts and so on. We might need to refuse deletion of personal data in certain cases, for example if there is an impact on our legal obligations.
11. DATA SECURITY – HOW WE PROTECT YOUR PERSONAL DATA
BMS uses appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect your personal data online and offline. We do this to prevent unauthorised processing, loss of data, disclosure, use, alteration, or destruction of your personal data. The measures that we deploy are dependent on the sensitivity of the personal data and the most recent advancements made in security technology. Where appropriate, we use encryption, pseudonymisation (such as key coding), de-identification and other technologies that can assist us in securing your data, including measures to restore access to your data. We also require our service providers to comply with reasonable and recognized data privacy and security requirements.
The measures we use to protect your data
Bristol Myers Squibb has adopted the
NIST Cybersecurity Framework
( https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework ) to ensure that our most critical information is kept confidential, suitably available, and safeguarded from corruption. Aligning with NIST also allows us to continuously assess and improve our ability to protect, detect, and respond to cyberattacks.  NIST defines five cybersecurity functions:  identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover.  We have aligned our cybersecurity program to these five functions.
We conduct regular testing and reviews of our technologies and processes, including auditing of our business partners and vendors, so that our security controls remain effective and up to date. Also, we may further anonymize your personal data when it is no longer needed for the purpose for which BMS originally collected it.
12. DATA RETENTION – HOW LONG BMS RETAINS YOUR PERSONAL DATA
Data retention schedules
BMS will only retain your personal data for as long as necessary for the processing purposes listed in
section 4 . When retaining and storing data about you in our systems, we have put in place specific data retention schedules in accordance with our company policy and in compliance with applicable data protection and local employment laws.
More information on our retention periods
Criteria to keep your data
Typically, we retain data based on the following criteria, where we consider:
the quantity, nature and sensitivity of the personal data in question;
the potential risk of harm in the event of unauthorised use or disclosure;
the purposes of the processing;
whether or not these purposes can be achieved by other means, as well as the applicable legal obligations.
Note : the below retention schedules are not applicable across all countries - certain retention periods may differ from this table to meet local legal or regulatory requirements (such as China).  Retention periods can also be adjusted in line with specific changes made through new legislation.
There are instances where BMS is legally obliged to adhere to specific retention periods. For example, when BMS must retain data for a set minimum period or to delete it after a set maximum time limit. Some common examples of these obligations normally relate to data needed for tax and accounting, anti-bribery, conflict of interest or investigation purposes.
Type of activity
Retention period
Benefit plan administration, reporting, and participant disclosure
Event + 10 years
Benefit enrolment and participation
Benefit plan development and management
Benefit plan texts and amendments
Event + 6 years
Education assistance, and work/life and diversity
Creation + 7 years
Workforce tracking and compliance
Creation + 5 years
Employee recruitment and selection
Creation + 3 years
Employment eligibility / verification & immigration
Duration of employment + 6 years
Personnel relations & investigations
Event + 3 years
Personnel records
Training completion – general
Duration of employment + 7 years
Labor arbitration / grievances
Labor relations records
Event + 50 years
Creation + 50 years
Compensation / salary, and incentive planning
Creation + 10 years
Training programs and materials
Training relating to BMS products in compliance with GxPs
Active + 5 years
Active + 2 years. Thereafter, the longer of 25 years or 10 years after the expiration of the drug’s marketing authorization.
Employee relocation and forgivable loans
Creation + 7 years
Payroll
Payroll tax records
Creation + 11 years
Employee time and attendance records
Creation + 8 years
For more specific information about the description of each activity, how long BMS retains your personal data for human resources management, or for other purposes as described in this privacy notice, please access this page:
https://retention.bms.com . If your relationship with BMS does not allow you to access this page, please contact us at
dpo@bms.com .
13. LEAVING BMS – WHAT HAPPENS TO MY DATA
After you end your employment with, BMS we will need to retain certain information about you, including your contact details, to fulfil certain business obligations, to administer or manage retirement plans, payment for outplacement services, respond to queries from your new employer.
Information about why we may retain your data after you leave BMS
Purpose
Categories of data
Details
Claims & disputes
For example, compensation, incident data, e-mail exchanges, investigation data.
To deal with claims or disputes involving you or others. This could include an accident at work. We do this because we have a legal obligation to provide the information, or it is in our interests to bring or defend a claim. We may also have an obligation to retain and preserve data or evidence that is subject to a legal hold obligation.
Retirement, e-mail communications or referrals
Years of service, compensation, e-mail exchanges, your applications and new role, third party contact details.
We may keep or share your information to administer or manage leave, severance or retirement packages, contact you in relation to your past role or work or to respond to queries to your new employer about your role at BMS.
Outplacement services
Professional and personal contact details, CV, professional background, role at BMS.
BMS may offer or pay for services after you leave our company. BMS will only keep your data necessary to pay the costs of packages you may be eligible for.
Business
continuity
E-mails and documentation, projects, and decisions you made, login and accesses to systems.
To understand and evidence decision making in your role and maintain knowledge within the business after you leave. We do this because it is in our interests to use this information to help run our business, or it may be to support a legal obligation we have.
Employee retention
Leave reasons, manager and employee evaluations, performance, role, position/title.
To understand why you left us. We do this because it is in our interests to use this information to help run our business or it may be to support a legal obligation we have.
Pension administration
Your contact details, compensation and benefits, years of service, payroll, and tax data.
To manage and administer your pension and related legal obligations.
Obligations to third parties
Your contact details, role, position, title, compensation & benefits.
To comply with our obligations to third parties in connection with your employment, such as tax authorities and professional bodies.
14. ADDITIONAL PRIVACY RIGHTS
This section contains additional information for jurisdictions that give additional privacy rights in the context of work with BMS. Note that these rights will depend on the nature of your contract or relationship with BMS, your residency, jurisdiction, State from which you originate or the BMS entity that you work for.  BMS will not discriminate against you for exercising your rights but may not be able to provide you with services or programs that you have requested if we are not able to use your personal data.  Please refer to
section 10
for general information about your privacy rights.
Information about additional applicable privacy rights
California
If you are a California resident, please note that:
the categories of personal information, the purpose for using it and how we disclose it with third parties for business purposes as provided in this Employee privacy notice are accurate for the past 12 months preceding the date of this notice;
we do not sell nor share your personal information for cross-context behavioral advertising;
BMS will only use sensitive data about you for legitimate business purposes, such as your geolocation (e.g.: professional drivers), bank details (e.g.: payroll). We will not use it to infer employee characteristics unless required or permitted by applicable Federal or State laws;
when using third party platforms to access third party products or services, you should exercise your rights by contacting them directly.
If you make a request to exercise your rights:
you may designate an agent to submit requests on your behalf;
we will first acknowledge receipt of your request within 10 business days and provide a more detailed response to your request generally within 45 days from when we receive your request, although we may be allowed to take longer to process your request under certain circumstances;
to submit requests, please call  855-961-0474  or complete the online form at:  https://www.bms .com/dpo/us/request .
15. TRANSFER OF CONTROL
Data sharing in connection with a transfer of control
Circumstances may arise where we decide to reorganize or divest part (or all) of our business or a line of our business (or any portion of our assets). This can include our information databases and websites, through a sale, divestiture, merger, acquisition, in the event of a bankruptcy, or other means of transfer.
In such circumstances, your personal data may be shared with, sold, transferred, rented, licensed, or otherwise provided or made available by us or on our behalf to actual or potential parties to, and in connection with, the contemplated transaction (without your consent or any further notice to you). In such circumstances, we will seek written assurances that your personal data will be protected appropriately.
16. CHANGES TO THIS NOTICE
BMS may update its privacy notices from time to time. If there are any important revisions which might impact the way we process your personal data, BMS will notify you to inform you of these changes either directly or through our internal communication channels.
17. CONTACT US
If you have questions about this notice, or you want to obtain more information about our use of your personal data as a BMS Worker, you can ask a question by raising a ticket on myBMS. For current and previous employees, you can also contact us by email at
eudpo@bms.com
for the EU/EEA, Switzerland and the UK. If you are located elsewhere, please email the team at
dpo@bms.com
or by post at the contact details as described on the relevant footer of our corporate websites that applies in your own language under the contact section.
More information about data protection in your market
List of privacy notices for other jurisdictions
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belgium EN
Belgium NR
Belgium FR
Brazil
Canada EN
Canada FR
Chile
China
Colombia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hong Kong
Hungary
India
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Korea
Luxembourg EN
Luxembourg FR
Mexico
Netherlands NL
Netherlands EN
New Zealand
Norway
Peru
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Saudi Arabia EN
Saudi Arabia AR
Singapore
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland DE
Switzerland FR
Taiwan
Thailand
Turkey
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom

May 13, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company