
Bladder And Reproductive Cancer
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from bladder and reproductive conditions. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
Bladder and reproductive cancer
Bladder & reproductive cancer resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third party sites.
Bladder cancer resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third party sites.
Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network
BCAN was founded in 2005 and is the only national advocacy organization devoted to advancing bladder cancer research and supporting those impacted by the disease.
Learn more >
Cancer.Net
Cancer.Net’s Guide to Bladder Cancer. Each guide is reviewed by experts on the Cancer.Net Editorial Board, which is composed of medical, surgical, radiation, gynecologic and pediatric oncologists, oncology nurses, physician assistants, social workers and patient advocates.
Learn more >
Genitourinary cancer resources
Genitourinary cancer refers to any cancer that affects the male reproductive system and urinary organs, including prostrate, kidney and bladder cancer. When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third party sites.
Clinical Genitourinary Cancer
Clinical Genitourinary Cancer is a peer-reviewed journal that publishes original articles describing various aspects of clinical and translational research in genitourinary cancer. The journal is devoted to articles on detection, diagnosis, prevention and treatment of genitourinary cancer.
Learn more >
Gynecologic cancer resources
Gynecologic cancer refers to the types of cancer that affect the female reproductive system, such as ovarian, uterine and cervical cancer. When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third party sites.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Helpful resources and basic information about gynecologic cancer.
Learn more >
General bladder & reproductive cancer resources
CancerCare
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
American Cancer Society
A guide with information and questions to ask your doctor.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.

April 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company