
Liver cancer
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from liver cancer. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
Liver cancer
Liver cancer
resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third-party sites.
Liver cancer resources
American liver FoundationThe American Liver Foundation (ALF) is a non profit organization that promotes liver health and disease prevention. ALF’s mission is to promote education, advocacy, support services and research for the prevention, treatment and cure of liver disease.Learn more > Global Liver InstituteThe Global Liver Institute is dedicated to improving the lives of people impacted by liver disease. Our commitment is to elevate recognition of the prevalence and impact of liver cancer; promote screening and early diagnosis; increase amount and quality of liver cancer resources; and train patients to be advocates for research, care, support and policy.Learn more > Medline PlusA collection of helpful information on the causes, symptoms, tests and treatments for liver cancer from the U.S. Library of Medicine.  Learn more > Blue FaeryBlue Faery’s mission is to help prevent, treat and cure primary liver cancer, specifically hepatocellular carcinoma, through research, education and advocacy. Learn more > YES, Beat Liver TumorsYES strives to deLIVER HOPE to all those that are affected by liver tumors. Their support services, seminars, conferences, events and awareness efforts often use the catch phrase “deLIVER HOPE” and “Say YES to HOPE.”Learn more > Liver cancer advocacy resource flashcardLearn about the role of advocacy organizations in providing support for patients with cancer.Download flashcard
NASH (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) resources
The NASH Education Program
Information about what NASH is and what it means for patients.
Learn More >
American Liver Foundation
Information to understand the symptoms of NAFLD/NASH.
Learn More >
General liver cancer resources
CancerCare
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.
National Cancer Institute
An overview on adjusting to cancer, dealing with self-image and support for caregivers.
Understanding Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy is one of the three main cancer treatments. Get a better understanding of how and when chemotherapy is given, and what you can expect.
Featured news & articles
See all articles
NOV 7TH, 2018 / SCIENCE
Working together to advance research in liver disease >
PEOPLE
Understanding and Addressing Africa’s Hepatitis C Pandemic >
JULY 28 TH, 2017 / NEWS & PERSPECTIVES
HCV China Campaign for World Hepatitis Day >

January 08, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company