
Celebrating Latino achievement
OLA recognizes and celebrates Latino achievements
About us
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
People and business resource groups
Celebrating Latino achievement
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Our Organization for Latino Achievement (OLA) recognizes and celebrates the many contributions, diverse cultures and extensive histories of the Latino community. OLA is one of our eight People and Business Resource Groups that help foster a culture of inclusion, strong employee engagement and higher levels of productivity.
Every day OLA members contribute diverse perspectives and innovation that are critical to our mission of helping patients prevail over serious diseases. Below are the stories of how some of those members contribute and thrive in a diverse and inclusive environment that values and empowers everyone. ​ ​
Scroll to the bottom of the page for links to learn more about  becoming part of a company where the diverse experiences and perspectives of all our employees help to drive innovation and transformative business results. ​
Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month: Juntos Podemos, Achieving Together
“
"Being an active member of the Organization for Latino Achievement has really expanded my network, giving me the opportunity to become a resilient voice for both members and allies."
“
“Being a part of the Organization for Latino Achievement has been invaluable to my career. Not only has it given me an outlet to bring my authentic self to work by sharing my culture with my peers, but it has also given me a support network that checks in on my development and presents me with opportunities. Through OLA, I regained the confidence I needed to dream bigger.”
“
“The Organization for Latino Achievement has given me the tools, network and opportunities to exponentially grow towards my next career movement.”
“
“The Organization for Latino Achievement is a way for our colleagues to develop their career, lead business objectives and drive positive outcomes for our patients.”
“
“Shaping Organization for Latino Achievement’s strategy is meaningful to me. Leveraging and learning about the valuable diversity of our teams, the positive impact of inclusive practices through a sense of belonging, bringing your full self to work and allyship to better serve our patients, communities and colleagues is invaluable.”
Related content
See all articles
September 22, 2023
Latinx/Hispanic scientists at all levels find success and satisfaction at BMS >
MAY 11, 2023
Pursuing big dreams in STEM >
MARCH 07, 2023
Above and beyond: Our research returns to space >
Resources for job seekers
Click the links below to learn more about our becoming part of a company where the diverse experiences and perspectives of all our employees help to drive innovation and transformative business results.  ​
Learn about our diversity and inclusion​ >
Explore job opportunities​ >
Join our talent community​ >
Bristol Myers Squibb is an equal opportunity employer. Qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, protected veteran status, pregnancy, citizenship, marital status, gender expression, genetic information, political affiliation, or any other characteristic protected by law.  For our EEO Policy Statement, please click  here . If you’d like more information on your EEO rights under the law, please click here.   EEO is the LAW  and  Supplemental Information .

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company