
Improving science education
About us
Responsibility
Supporting our communities
Improving science education
Science and technology are at the core of everything we do. We're always eager to open young minds to the exciting possibilities of both. Through grants and other programs, we've introduced students to genetics, robotics, engineering, alternative energy, and environmental science. Our employees also serve on advisory boards at career academies and two- and four-year colleges.
We're improving science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education in the communities where our employees work and live.
Bristol Myers Squibb centers for science teaching and learning
Located at
Rider
and
Montclair State
universities in New Jersey, and
Quinnipiac University
in Connecticut, these centers are changing the way educators inspire learners from elementary school through high school.
The centers at Rider University and Montclair State University are working with the New Jersey Department of Education to help implement the Next Generation Science Standards and similar work is under way at Quinnipiac. The Quinnipiac center also provides opportunities for students in southern Connecticut to explore their career interests in science, health sciences and medicine.
Connecticut invention convention
With employees at our research and development campus in Wallingford, Connecticut, we are helping the Connecticut Invention Convention expose critical thinking and creative problem-solving skills to children in grades K-8. This annual competition challenges school children to invent something that solves a common problem. Students present their inventions at local school competitions. Volunteer judges pick finalists for the statewide Connecticut Invention Convention at the University of Connecticut in Storrs.
Learn more about the Annual Competition
Student biotechnology expo
Since 2001, our ZymoGenetics subsidiary in Seattle, Washington, has sponsored the Northwest Association of Biomedical Research’s Student Biotechnology Expo. Our employees also mentor students and judge student projects. This annual event brings high school students from across Washington State together to compete and showcase different aspects within the field of biotechnology.
Summer scientific research programs
Bristol Myers Squibb supports programs at various colleges in New Jersey and Pennsylvania that enable undergraduate students to gain real-life experience performing scientific research in biology, chemistry, biochemistry and biotechnology. Participating colleges include The College of New Jersey,
Monmouth University , Delaware Valley University and Middlesex County College.
Robotics
We help K-12 students prepare for careers in science and technology by supporting district-wide robotics and engineering curricula. Students learn important skills that prepare them to succeed in school and in life, including problem-solving and critical thinking; teamwork, collaboration and leadership; and innovation and creativity. We also sponsor high school and middle school teams that participate in the FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) robotics and technology competitions. Our employees also mentor students participating in competitions.
Get the facts on FIRST
Fostering interest in science and science careers
Our employees across the United States help middle school, high school and college students explore their interests in science and technology by visiting classrooms, participating in science and career fairs, and serving as judges at regional and statewide science and technology competitions.
Employees at our biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts, host a Shadow Day for AP Biology students from
Nashoba Regional High School . Students are paired with employees to learn about a variety of jobs available in biologics manufacturing.
Our employees at ZymoGenetics in Seattle, have a long-standing partnership with the
Ballard High School Biotechnology Career Academy
(BHSBCA) . This unique program allows teachers to develop an integrated curriculum to prepare students for advanced study and a career in science. One-on-one job shadowing and mentoring enables students to experience biotechnology in a more holistic way.
In Trenton, New Jersey, employee volunteer with Rutgers University 4H on a series of Saturday programs called “Tomorrow’s Innovators.” Students in grades 4-7 from diverse backgrounds are given the opportunity to explore their interests in science and science-based careers. Grants from Bristol Myers Squibb support similar STEM-focused programs at the Boys & Girls Club of Trenton & Mercer County and the Girl Scouts of Central and Southern New Jersey.
In neighboring Lawrenceville, New Jersey, we've also provided grants for
Rider University’s STEM Teacher Academy , where high school students interested in becoming science, mathematics or technology teachers get hands-on experience. We're also proud to lend our support to Project SEED. This initiative, co-sponsored by Rider and the American Chemical Society, provides disadvantaged urban teenagers with a passion for chemistry the opportunity to serve as research assistants for projects in Rider's labs.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company