
Lynelle Hoch - Bristol Myers Squibb
About us
Leadership
Leadership team
Lynelle Hoch
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Lynelle B. Hoch
President, Cell Therapy Organization
Lynelle Hoch is president, Cell Therapy Organization, leading Bristol Myers Squibb’s cross-functional cell therapy business since June 2021. In this role, she oversees the teams responsible for the research, development, manufacturing and commercialization of BMS’ marketed and pipeline cell therapies, united in the shared mission of unlocking the full potential of cell therapy and putting patients on the path to a cure.
“Cell therapy represents one of the most promising and exciting scientific advancements that will continue to revolutionize the way we approach cancer treatment, and now potentially B-cell mediated autoimmune disorders,” says Lynelle. “At BMS, transforming patients' lives through science motivates our talented teams to do the hard work to further this potential, and we’re only just beginning.”
Since starting her career as an engineer intern in manufacturing, Lynelle has held increasingly senior positions at BMS over the last 25+ years in sales, marketing and market access, both internationally and in the U.S. Prior to joining the cell therapy business, Lynelle was the general manager for BMS in the UK and Ireland, where she grew the company’s presence as well as its ability to deliver innovative medicines to patients. Before that, Lynelle successfully led the marketing organization for the immuno-oncology portfolio and worked with teams across therapeutic areas and functions.
Lynelle’s passion for helping patients is always present in her leadership, and this passion is matched by her advocacy for diversity in leadership and talent development. Her leadership has been recognized both within BMS and externally, including as a Top 50 Health Influencer in the U.S. by MM&M/PRWeek and most recently, as one of Fierce Pharma’s 2023
Fiercest Women in Life Sciences .
Lynelle earned a BS in geoenvironmental engineering from The Pennsylvania State University.
Updated: January 2024
PREVIOUS
< Samit Hirawat
NEXT
Kim Jablonski >

January 09, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company