
Investors
Learn more about how we strive to produce sustained strong performance and shareholder value.
NYSE : BMY
N/A
N/A
N/A
Change
N/A
Volume
N/A
Open
See Detailed Stock Info
(20 MIN DELAY)
Explore investors
Stock information >
Financial reporting >
Analyst coverage >
Events and presentations >
Shareholder services >
Online delivery of shareholder materials  >
Investor contacts >
Upcoming events
View all
There are currently no events scheduled.
Recent events
View all
There are currently no events scheduled.
Our stories
View all
Biking the globe for C2C4C >
Dreaming big and trusting in talent: Getting to know John Loveseth >
Voices from R&D: personal experience inspires the development of new medicines >
Latest press releases
View more
Subscribe to Press Release Email Alerts >
Our reports
Annual report >
Global inclusion and diversity report >
Environmental, social and governance report >
Global access report >
Our science
We are guided by a single vision
Transforming patients' lives through science
Our pipeline is focused on research in therapeutic areas where we believe we have the best opportunity to deliver transformational medicines to patients.
Our R&D pipeline
Investor resources
Tool kit
Investment return calculator >
Cost basis calculator >
SEC filings >
Annual reports
Interactive annual report >
Annual report request >
View past annual reports >
Shareholder services
Buy shares >
Check your account >
Read FAQs for BMY shareholders >
Read acquisition FAQs for Celgene shareholders >
Read FAQs for Mirati shareholders >
Abraxane CVR notification >
Email alerts
Click investor alerts to manage event, presentation and SEC Filing email notifications, or select press release alerts to subscribe to company news alerts.
Investor alerts >
Press release alerts >
Business Development information
BMS completes global license deal with SystImmune
Learn More >
FAQs for Mirati shareholders
Frequently asked questions about Mirati
Learn More >
FAQs for Celgene shareholders
Frequently asked questions about Celgene shares and CVRs.
Learn More >
Tax information for Celgene shareholders
Information including IRS Form 8937.
Learn More >
Materials on this website may contain information about the Company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained on this website should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
In addition, any information contained on this website was current as of the date presented and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Consequently, the company will not update the information contained on the website and investors should not rely upon the information as current or accurate after the presentation date. The website may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for a particular quarterly period are available on the company’s website at
www.bms.com .​​​

April 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company