
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Leadership Perspectives
There's more to do for patients: Our strong presence at ASH
December 04, 2019
Giovanni Caforio, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bristol Myers Squibb
The annual meeting of the American Society of Hematology (ASH) is recognized as one of the most important venues for sharing exciting research and advances in the treatment of blood cancers and diseases. It also signals new hope for patients around the world waiting for novel treatments for their conditions. This year, we are honored to join ASH as the world’s No. 1 oncology company and a scientific leader in hematology.
Giovanni Caforio, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb and Celgene have come together as a new company, and we are now working together to transform the lives of even more patients through science.
We are looking forward to this year’s ASH conference, where we will take another step toward realizing our goal of improving the lives of patients with cancer. We’re proud to share some of the latest exciting data updates coming out of our rich pipeline in hematology, including:
Important data for a CAR T technology that highlights its potential for patients with late-stage diffuse large B-cell lymphoma;
A new therapeutic approach to help address anemia associated with myelofibrosis, myelodysplastic syndromes and beta-thalassemia; and
Late-stage data in a maintenance setting for patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia, where a significant unmet need still exists.
In addition to this clinical data, we will also share early research, further underscoring the promise of our broad discovery pipeline.
And, recognizing that patients’ needs go beyond the medicines to treat cancer, we are proud to showcase research that seeks to understand the real-world outcomes associated with certain cardiovascular conditions among patients with cancer. With this objective in mind, we have also recently shared data on a novel way to potentially help prevent graft-versus-host disease in patients with blood cancer who received a stem cell transplant, resulting in a Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
We look forward to ASH not only for the opportunities to share data from our  combined pipeline
and portfolio but importantly, for the opportunities to connect with the broader cancer community, including researchers, advocates and other partners. We dedicate our time with this community to build relationships and further the dialogue around our shared goals of advancing treatments for patients living with cancer.
The research we will present at ASH represent years of dedication and passion focused on improving treatment options for patients. I am very proud of the strong presence we will have at this important conference and the outstanding work of our teams. As I think about what these and other research advances could potentially mean for patients I am incredibly excited about the future and what’s to come.
Giovanni Caforio
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Bristol Myers Squibb
related articles
Searching the globe for the next big deal for patients  >
Continuing our culture of putting patients first >
Faster, higher, stronger >

September 14, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company