
Global Patient Week 2023 - Bristol Myers Squibb
'Not broken, but reborn'
Rosario, life with gastric cancer
'It became a competition for me'
Kathy, life with melanoma
'I have hope because science is advancing'
Tina, life with beta thalassemia
Global Patient Week
Now in its ninth year, Global Patient Week is an integral part of our culture — it unifies us and reignites our passion to do more for our patients. As the first biopharma to set aside time solely focused on the individuals we work for each and every day, we promise to always listen and learn from the world’s greatest experts: our patients. As they share the depth and breadth of their journeys — and the unique path that each of them travels — they strengthen our resolve. Ultimately, their shared stories empower us as we transform patients’ lives through science.
.
Watch the replay
On September 19, 2023, Chairman & CEO Giovanni Caforio (center) and EVP, Chief Operating Officer Chris Boerner (right) were Live on the BMS corporate LinkedIn page for a discussion moderated by SVP, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer Cari Gallman (left) surrounding the question, "What drives our leaders to do more for patients each and every day?"
Usman's story >
Radhika's story >
Eric's story >
Dina's story >
Fran Rojas is one of the first tattoo artists in Mexico to participate in Bristol Myers Squibb’s Look for the Spot campaign, where tattooists check for signs of melanoma on their clients. Look for the Spot is one of countless active patient advocacy programs that BMS participates in around the world.
PATIENT ADVOCACY
BMS and global advocates partner for patients
By joining forces with patient advocacy programs and influencers around the world, Bristol Myers Squibb helps people just when they need it most.
Global Patient
Week 2022 >
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe

February 01, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company