
At Climate Week’s Solutions House, Adriana Zupa-Fernandez, director of Sustainability Strategy and Operations, discussed what BMS is doing to decrease our carbon footprint.
News & Perspectives
Climate Week: Four ways BMS highlighted its environmental progress
At this year’s summit in New York, BMS leaders laid out how we’re making our science more sustainable, from green labs to responsible sourcing.
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
October 05, 2023
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) is working to minimize its environmental footprint and address the effects of climate change. The company has set ambitious goals, including to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2040 and net-zero emissions by 2050.
In September, the company took part in Climate Week, an annual climate conference in New York set alongside the UN General Assembly that brings together international leaders in business, government, and civil society to discuss, debate and discover solutions for the climate crisis.
There, the environmental sustainability team shared how BMS is driving our climate agenda forward, while also leaning into conversations around the intersection of public health and climate change and the importance of collaboration to chart paths to decarbonization.
Here are four highlights from this year’s Climate Week that illustrate BMS’ steady progress:
1. Collaborating to mitigate climate change’s consequences
At an event for Forum for the Future’s
Climate and Health Coalition, Adriana Zupa-Fernandez, director of Sustainability Strategy and Operations, discussed how BMS is committed to addressing the complex consequences of climate change, including the impacts on global public health. As examples, she shared how BMS is taking action through the recent adoption of the My Green Labs program and partnerships such as Pistoia Alliance, which assesses the carbon footprint of clinical trials.
2. More sustainable supply chain
Manufacture 2030 celebrated its first anniversary since the
Activate program's  inception, in which participating companies work with their suppliers to improve their environmental impacts. A founding member of the program, BMS continues to work closely with its active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) suppliers, helping them access expert advice and resources on how to decarbonize their supply chain, as well as supporting them on developing science-based emissions targets.
3. Roadmap to reach net zero
Implementing roadmaps to reach net zero was the focus of a Climate Week panel that included Victoria Emerick, executive director for Global Sustainability Strategy and Operations. Emerick shared the ways BMS is
tackling some of the biggest environmental challenges
the world is facing, including climate change, pollution, and water scarcity.
As a company dedicated to helping people overcome serious diseases, BMS understands the harmful effects that climate change and environmental degradation can have on global public health. Like many of its peers, BMS has a target set to transition to net zero by 2050, and the company is continually looking for ways to reduce its carbon footprint and achieve this important milestone. These include reducing waste and energy consumption and responsible sourcing of materials.
4. Empowering environmental champions
The conference was also an opportunity to spotlight environmental champions. Stephanie Craig, senior manager, Global Scientific and Regulatory Documentation, was awarded the Climate Hero Award   by Women and Climate NYC for her role in embedding sustainable practices in BMS, including by establishing a sustainability challenge for colleagues and supporting a carbon offset program for company travel.
Climate Week was a chance to show our commitment to a sustainable planet, which contributes to greater public health. At the same time, it allowed our leaders in ESG (environmental, social & governance) to learn about new technologies and initiatives to drive our sustainability agenda forward and be a catalyst for change.
Read our latest ESG report
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Sustainability
Bristol Myers Squibb employees from 30 nations will cycle and celebrate 11 years of C2C4C >
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >
Our journey to reduce Scope 3 emissions >

October 05, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company