
Our mission, vision, values and commitment
About us
Our company
Our mission, vision, values and commitment
Our mission
To discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases.
Our vision
To be the world’s leading biopharma company that transforms patients’ lives through science.
Our values
Integrity
We demonstrate ethics, integrity and quality in everything we do for patients, customers and colleagues
Urgency
We move together with speed and quality because patients are waiting
Accountability
We all own Bristol Myers Squibb’s success and strive to be transparent and deliver on our commitments
Innovation
We pursue disruptive and bold solutions for patients
Passion
Our dedication to learning and excellence helps us to deliver exceptional results
Inclusion
We embrace diversity and foster an environment where we can all work together at our full potential
Our commitment
To our patients and customers, employees, global communities, shareholders, environment and other stakeholders, we promise to act on our belief that the priceless ingredient of every product is the integrity of its maker. We operate with effective governance and high standards of ethical behavior. We seek transparency and dialogue with our stakeholders to improve our understanding of their needs. We take our commitment to economic, social and environmental sustainability seriously, and extend this expectation to our partners and suppliers. As a responsible corporate citizen, we seek to actively improve the health of the communities where we live, work and serve. Around the globe, we promote health equity and seek to promote the health outcomes of populations disproportionately affected by serious disease. We believe our diverse and inclusive culture supports better outcomes for all patients and we seek diversity in all aspects of our business.
To our patients and customers
We commit to scientific excellence and investment in biopharmaceutical research and development to provide innovative, high-quality medicines that address the unmet medical needs of patients with serious diseases. We apply scientific rigor to produce clinical and economic benefit through medicines that improve patients’ lives. We strive to make information about our commercialized medicines widely and readily available. We actively seek to improve access to care, advocate for policies that promote health equity, and help underserved patients access and afford the medicines they need.
To our employees
We embrace a diverse workforce and inclusive culture. The health, safety, professional development, work-life balance and equitable, respectful treatment of our employees are among our highest priorities. We commit to ensuring our colleagues have opportunities for development and advancement.
To our suppliers
We believe in the positive economic impact of engaging diverse suppliers. We are committed to working with suppliers that represent the diversity of our employees and the communities where we live and work.
To our shareholders
We strive to produce sustained strong performance and shareholder value.
To our environment
We encourage the preservation of natural resources and strive to minimize the environmental impact of our operations and products.

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company