
Featured Researcher: Lisa McClintock - Bristol Myers Squibb
Researchers
R&D expert voices
Researcher bios
Featured Researcher: Lisa McClintock
Share Icon
Facebook Icon
Twitter Icon
Linkedin Icon
Email Icon
Lisa McClintock
Vice President, Devens Cell Therapy Manufacturing Lead
Devens, Massachusetts
Biography
Lisa McClintock is vice president and lead at Bristol Myers Squibb’s cell therapy manufacturing facility in Devens, MA. She leads the startup of the newly constructed cell therapy facility in Devens while working to ensure a successful regulatory inspection and driving the facility to optimal capacity to produce products for patients. Lisa sets strategic direction and establishes and drives a culture of collaboration and alignment between various functions and departments within cell therapy both within and above site.
“To once again be a pioneer on the cutting edge of technology and at the same time serve patients who in the recent past have had little to no hope has me excited to come to work every day,” Lisa said. “Working with others with the same passion is a dream come true.”
Prior to her current role, Lisa was site head for Sanofi leading a team who saw approval of three important drugs. At the same time, she oversaw several projects that achieved improvements in production while ensuring safety and high-quality standards were met. Prior to joining Sanofi, Lisa initially joined Bristol Myers Squibb in 2017 and served as a plant manager and quality site head in Syracuse, NY.
Earlier in her career, Lisa worked at Amgen for more than 20 years, supporting the operations division. She oversaw and directed plant support operations for an anemia drug. In addition, she developed and implemented strategies for sourcing critical raw materials. She managed all aspects of the product commercialization strategy for one approved drug and four early-stage programs.
Lisa has over 30 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry streamlining operations, maximizing productivity and leading organizational change. She received her bachelor’s degree in microbiology at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Interests and Expertise
A passionate leader, Lisa thrives when she is helping others. Over the past five years she has volunteered with American Corporate Partners, mentoring veterans as they transition from military to civilian life.
“I come from a family where both my dad and brother served in the military. This is one small way I can give back to the men and women who have been willing to give up so much for our country.”
Lisa previously served as board member for the MetroWest Chamber of Commerce and was a recipient of the organization’s Business Leader of the Year Award in 2021.
When Lisa isn’t bringing critical treatments to patients, she enjoys spending time with her family and granddaughter. She especially appreciates being outdoors where she can be found boating, hiking or snowboarding.

July 15, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company