
Mathiwos Wondu - YeEthiopia Cancer Society
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Our focus area
Combating cancer
Mathiwos Wondu - YeEthiopia Cancer Society
We are helping to save the lives of women and girls from cervical and breast cancer and to contribute to the National Cancer Prevention and Control in Oromia, Southern Nations, Nationalities and People’s Republic and Addis Ababa Regions of Ethiopia.
Need
In 2008, four percent of all deaths in Ethiopia were cancer-related (WHO, 2010). The national estimated number of cancer cases in 2012 was 60,749 (Male: 19,654, Female: 41,095) (IARC, 2013).
The most common cancers diagnosed are cervical, breast cancer, Kaposi’s sarcoma, digestive organ cancers, hematopoietic and prostate cancer, based on findings from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). According to Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon in Ethiopia, cervical cancer is the most-common female cancer. The disease continues to be the number-one cancer killer of women in sub-Saharan Africa, exacerbated by HIV.
Since 2012, Mathiwos Wondu - YeEthiopia Cancer Society (MWECS) has encouraged the rapid implementation of the United Nations’ declaration on non-communicable diseases (NCD) in the country. The organization also has been working to reduce incidences of lung cancer with an anti-tobacco campaign in 10 schools, and a plan to expand the campaign into public universities as well. Lack of knowledge and education, along with discrimination and stigma have contributed to the cancer burden in Ethiopia, with insufficient care and inadequate access to services resulting in many people dying at home.
Project
MWECS is building institutional capacity to be better positioned to educate and empower communities with information about reproductive cancers while reducing the stigma that usually accompanies a diagnosis. By utilizing their long experience in community mobilization, their goal is to strengthen community awareness campaigns on breast and cervical cancer using key community members such as political, religious and female leaders in the battle against cancers.
MWECS will also be better equipped to advocate for cancer policies and services and for more resources to support interventions from outside Ethiopia. Our SECURE THE FUTURE Technical Assistance Program will provide assistance in resource mobilization, monitoring and evaluation, financial management and governance, and leadership to help MWECS actively support and become part of the Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon collaboration.
Project Objectives:
To increase community awareness on breast and cervical cancer prevention and control
To promote awareness among policy makers and health workers about the burden of breast and cervical cancer risk factors
To strengthen early referral, treatment, care and support of breast and cervical cancers in communities
To strengthen community-based palliative care for advanced breast and cancer patients
To strengthen the implementation capacity of MWECS on women's breast and cancer prevention and control activities
Partners
Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon
Pathfinder International, Family Guidance Association of Ethiopia (FGAE)
Marie Stopes International
CORDAID
CUAMM
Midwife and Nurse Associations
See where we are helping

September 17, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company