
Colleagues
Jump to:
GD&I Strategy
Overview
CEO Letter
CIDO Letter
Patients and Communities
Colleagues
Business and Industry
Download full 2021 Global Inclusion & Diversity Report
2021 GLOBAL INCLUSION & DIVERSITY REPORT
Colleagues
Inclusion and Diversity strengthen the I.D. of BMS to harness the collective power of the diverse cultures, backgrounds and perspectives of our colleagues around the world.
“
"Our people are our greatest strength. It is essential that we build a global workforce that reflects the diverse cultures, backgrounds and experiences of our patients and communities around the world. We focus on creating a workplace where everyone feels they belong, their unique perspectives are valued and they can fully contribute to BMS’s vision of transforming patients’ lives through science."
Ann M. Powell, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
”
Building a culture of inclusion and belonging to harness the power and impact of our globally diverse workforce
Building a globally diverse workforce requires intentionality, transparency and accountability and by leveraging talent management best practices, accelerated leadership development and inclusive leadership behaviors, we harness the collective power of our colleagues to drive the human connection and innovation we bring to our work every day.
We are proud of the significant progress we are making to expand the diversity of our executive, management and professional teams.
Global gender by management level chart
We value
an executive team that reflects the perspectives and backgrounds of the patients and communities we serve
Workforce aspirational representation goals
In 2020, we made bold Inclusion, Diversity, & Health Equity commitments to accelerate our efforts to address systemic inequities and drive meaningful change. We are proud of the progress we have made to achieve our aspirational representation goals at the executive level of our organization given our intentionality and accountability.
Achieve gender parity at the executive level (VP+) globally by 2022
Double executive representation (VP+) of Black/African American employees in the U.S. by 2022 from 2020 levels
Double executive representation (VP+) of Latino/Hispanic employees in the U.S. by 2022 from 2020 levels
At the executive level:
Global executive gender parity
45.5 %
of global executives were women in 2021 vs. 42.6% in 2020
Black/African American U.S. executive
4.5 %
of U.S. executives were Black/African American in 2021 vs. 2.4% in 2020
Latino/Hispanic U.S. executive
7.2 %
of U.S. executives were Latino/Hispanic in 2021 vs. 4.2% in 2020
Asian American U.S. executive
17.2 %
of U.S. executives were Asian American in 2021 vs. 16.7% in 2020*
*Not part of workforce goals within 2022 commitments
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
We leverage a broad suite of programs to identify and develop future talent
Leveraging mentoring programs
The BMS Connections Mentoring Program leverages intra-company global group mentoring capabilities to build relationships and learn from the diverse perspectives of others.
One Young World
One Young World (OYW) is a global non-profit that unites young leaders, from every country and sector, working to accelerate the change they want to see. BMS supports OYW as an opportunity to provide leadership development and demonstrate our commitment to nurture and grow emerging leaders at the company.
Encouraging tomorrow’s leaders through support for education today
We know fulfilling our mission to be a more inclusive organization — one that is laser-focused on improving patient outcomes—takes strong leadership. That is why we are nurturing a future generation of decision-makers and opinion leaders who can lead the charge in reducing healthcare disparities among globally diverse patients.
Partnering with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to solve STEM disparities
The number of STEM graduates has grown, especially at the bachelor’s and master’s levels. However, Black/African American and Latino/Hispanic talent remain underrepresented in the STEM workforce compared with their share of all workers. To help address this gap, BOLD (Black Organization for Leadership and Development), one of our eight PBRGs, not only engages middle school, high school and university students in STEM mentoring, but also has a continued sponsorship of the Executive Leadership Council BMS Scholarship Program and the United Negro College Fund Postgraduate Fellowship Program.
Building a global, diverse workforce that is driven by our values
Pay equity We are committed to pay equity as one of several enablers of an inclusive and diverse work environment. It is a BMS principle to pay employees equitably based on the work they do, the capabilities, and experience they possess, and the performance and values they demonstrate. We use a market-based approach for roles at all levels in the organization to set starting salaries and make pay decisions.
Aspirational goals — accountability & transparency By leveraging analytics and external market data, we set five-year aspirational goals to increase the representation of women globally and historically underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in the U.S. in the healthcare industry. We will strive to achieve these goals by holding ourselves accountable through key performance indicators (KPIs) linked to critical talent management data, such as robust succession plans, ensuring and tracking diversity of candidate slates and interview panels.
Accelerated leadership development and advancement We have enhanced our longstanding investments in accelerated leadership development and have developed unique and relevant content for women globally and for underrepresented racial and ethnic groups in the U.S. These initiatives include creating differentiated development opportunities and development plans that prepare our leaders for future global challenges.
Insights for Success Our Insights for Success program is offered to diverse employees — women, Black/African American, Latino/Hispanic and Asian Americans— to enhance their organizational and personal career success and ensure equitable leadership opportunities. During 2021, we hosted several cohorts in this program and offered our first cohort focused on LGBTQ+ employees.
“
"Our deep and unwavering commitment to ethics and integrity provides the foundation for everything we do. It guides how we interact with our colleagues and external partners, as well as the work we do on behalf of our patients and communities around the world."
Cari Gallman, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
”
Creating a culture of inclusion and belonging
We strive to ensure every colleague around the world — across diverse cultures, backgrounds and experiences—is valued, respected and feels a sense of belonging. This brings to life our efforts to create a culture that rewards employees for bringing their authentic selves to work and encourages them to speak up and contribute to how we move forward.
96 %
of BMS employees who feel they are working in an inclusive environment would recommend BMS to others as a great place to work.
Veterans, People with Disabilities and LGBTQ+ Status Self-Identification
In the U.S. and Puerto Rico, employees have the opportunity to disclose their veteran status, disability status and LGBTQ+ status in our Human Resources system of record. Through an amplified self-identification program with leader messages and employee videos called, “Everybody Counts,” we are seeing increases in the number of employees who voluntarily participate and report their veteran, disability and LGBTQ+ status.
From 2019 to 2021, we saw the percentage of those willing to disclose their disability status increase from 36.7% to 44.4%. In addition, for LGTBQ+ employees, the increase in those willing to self-ID increased from 6.4% to 14.8%. These results show that we are creating an environment of trust and psychological safety where people feel they can disclose the full spectrum of their identity at BMS.
Percentage of workforce providing status
Veteran*
Disability
LGBTQ+
2021
63%
44.4%
14.8%
2020
75.7%
41.3%
13.2%
2019
83.4%
36.7%
6.4%
*Adjustments in how these data were captured between 2019-2021 caused a change in data availability
Veterans, People with Disabilities and LGBTQ+ status Self Identification
Focus on employee wellbeing
During 2021, we continued to invest in our Living Life Better strategy that encourages wellbeing at BMS for ourselves, our families, our patients and our community. Our strategy allows employees to choose offerings that best suit their unique needs. To further our support of emotional wellbeing, we created a Mental Health Allies program to train BMS employees to provide onsite real-time emotional support on a peer-to-peer basis. This supplements our global employee assistance program and continued investments in access to mental health professionals. As a result of the Mental Health Allies program, we saw a double digit increase in positive sentiments about using Employee Assistance Program (EAP) services and speaking with a Mental Health Ally.
Our People and Business Resource
Group Leadership (PBRG) Team
The
PBRGs
focus on our inclusion and diversity priorities to build a workforce that reflects the diversity of the patients and communities we serve, foster a culture of inclusion and belonging and drive innovation and business results.
Each of our eight PBRGs is led by a full-time business leader, who reports directly to members of the BMS Leadership Team. They serve as a trusted advisory group, providing critical insights and value on key business initiatives, amplifying the voice of our workforce and advancing innovation fueled by diverse patient insights and knowledge.
PBRG membership has grown to more than 12,200+ unique members in 2021 across 200+ chapters in 44 countries.
Nearly 40% of our employees worldwide are members of PBRGs.
We have eight PBRGs focused on various dimensions of diversity, including women, Black/African American, Latino/Hispanic, Pan Asian, generational, LGBTQ+, Veterans and People with Disabilities.
Impact on gender parity and allyship
“ B-NOW contributes to the successes BMS and its executive representation goal of reaching gender parity by first focusing internally on advancing and retaining our pipeline talent while establishing strategic partnerships externally. The B-NOW PBRG is deliberate about fostering a culture of inclusion globally, so all members experience a sense of belonging and authentically contribute to driving our BMS mission and vision of delivering our medicines to our patients. ”
Thalia Mingo
B-NOW, Global Lead
Impact on veteran hiring and military leave support
“VCN has heightened its focus to expand the applicant pool to include more veterans and those who are military-connected. In 2021, the VCN PBRG worked closely with the talent acquisition team to attract more veterans to apply at BMS which resulted in an increase in veteran hiring by over 350% compared to previous years. Notably, the military-connected include members of the military, reservists and military spouses (military spouses are statistically mostly women). We understand the career sacrifices of dedicated career spouses and have committed to working with B-NOW, another of our forward-thinking PBRGs, on a returner pilot program to create opportunities for military spouses.”
Patrick Krug
VCN Global Lead
Impact on voluntary self-disclosure and employee empowerment
“DAWN guides the company in its hiring approach for people with disabilities, ensuring that at each step, BMS is being fully inclusive. The DAWN PBRG identified opportunities to support the improvement of the accessibility of our platforms, documents, accommodations and building designs. By enhancing our internal and external messages on disability inclusion, along with building the company capabilities, we have seen consecutive years of growth in disability self-disclosure across applicants and in our existing employee base. I find it encouraging to know that twice as many applications have disclosed a disability since we made changes to our communications and processes.”
Tinamarie Duff
DAWN Global Lead
Impact on clinical trials and patient access
"Inclusion and diversity are essential for better outcomes for our patients and communities. At OLA, we have prioritized the Latino/Hispanic patient voice. The OLA PBRG is sponsoring a clinical trial academy that provides the training needed to certify clinical trial coordinators in Latino/Hispanic communities in Texas and New Mexico. This initiative supports Latino/Hispanic patient communities by improving their representation in healthcare and impacts local economies by providing access to high-paying jobs for the people selected for the academy. It also means patients will be receiving care from clinical teams with diverse backgrounds, which we know increases the likelihood of participation in clinical trials. We expect that this effort will contribute to the recruitment of more than 50,000 racially and ethnically diverse patients over the next three years.”
Nataly Manjarrez-Orduño
OLA Global Lead
Impact on sustainability and mentoring
“The CLIMB PBRG leveraged internal communications channels to create the Sustainability Calendar Challenge. Every month employees are encouraged to participate in a challenge related to the environment, safety or wellbeing. The digital calendar provides education and shares examples on how everyone can take action. Last year, the program generated over 10,000 impressions. As we focus more on sustainability as a company and as humans, CLIMB is committed to doing our part, both individually and collectively."
Adriana Zupa-Fernandez
CLIMB, Global Lead (2021 Global Lead)
Impact on Health Equity and a Sense of Belonging
“Asian Americans are twice as likely to develop chronic hepatitis B than non-Hispanic Whites and have the highest incidence of mortality rates of liver and stomach cancers. Representing our Asian American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (AANHPI) communities, the PAN PBRG works diligently to promote health equity to improve the health outcomes of populations disproportionately affected by serious diseases. PAN partners with internal and external organizations and advocacy groups to accelerate disease awareness, provides educational programs, develops culture-competent healthcare services and drives community outreach within the AANHPI communities. Our efforts increase clinical trial diversity at all levels and engages with individuals with diverse knowledge and experiences to share their stories and amplify their voices at the grassroots level.”
Jennifer Rasing
PAN Global Lead
Impact on STEM and professional development
“BOLD is shaping the future of talent through STEM outreach in the Black/African American community. This is accomplished through our relationships with colleges, universities, high schools, civic organizations and nonprofits. Through these efforts BOLD is able to impact approximately 1,800 students annually and teach them science and practical skills—such as how to read a product label— while exposing them to the world of science and a plethora of career opportunities in the pharmaceutical industry.”
Monique Phillips
BOLD Global Lead
Impact on health equity, belonging and inclusion
“Transgender patients are at an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE), also known as blood clots, while receiving gender affirming therapy or surgery. However, many physicians do not know how to assess and manage VTE risk in this population and patients may also be unaware. PRIDE Alliance has supported initiatives by the North American Thrombosis Forum to provide education to patients and physicians around ways of implementing gender affirming surgery, while minimizing thrombosis risk. In several therapeutic areas, PRIDE Alliance has focused on identifying and understanding health equity opportunities for the LGBTQ+ community by raising awareness internally and externally and supporting organizations that are building solutions.”
Paul Shay
PRIDE Alliance Global Lead
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon
PREVIOUS SECTION
< Patients & Communities
NEXT SECTION
Business and Industry>
You may also be interested in
Global Diversity & Inclusion Report 2020 >
Annual Report 2021 >
2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report >
Global Access Report >
Previous Page Icon
Next Page Icon

August 29, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company