
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Our Culture
Bristol Myers Squibb among 2018 Working Mother 100 Best Companies
Company recognized for the 21st straight year as employer of choice
September 24, 2018
Bristol Myers Squibb has earned a spot on this year’s Working Mother Magazine’s 100 Best Companies list. This honor marks the 21 st
consecutive year the magazine has recognized the company for encouraging female advancement as well as the comprehensive array of benefits offered, including on-site childcare and flexible work options.
“This Working Mother recognition is a testament to our energizing culture, which enables our workforce to achieve both their personal and professional goals,” said Ann Powell Judge, head of Global Human Resources. “We’re thrilled to be on the list once again because it highlights our continued commitment to ensuring Bristol Myers Squibb is a great place to work.”
Employee Spotlight
Catherine Liu, Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis at Bristol Myers Squibb, and her eight-year-old daughter, Samantha, her six-year-old son, Nicholas and her two-year-old son, Alex.
Catherine Liu, Director, Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis, has been with Bristol Myers Squibb for more than 13 years and attributes her longstanding time with the company to BMS' family-friendly environment and flexibility.
“The company culture is family focused which allows me to have a work-life balance,” says Liu, “Support from my managers, on-site daycare, flexible work options and the lactation rooms are all things I’ve benefited from as a working mom.”
Now in her sixth role at Bristol Myers Squibb and with three children between the ages of two and eight, Liu has figured out how to successfully navigate being a working mom. She says that she couldn’t have advanced throughout the company without the support of her managers and the incredible benefits of the Child Development Center.
Liu took advantage of the full day coverage offered by the center, 7:30am to 6:30pm weekdays, with all three of her children. Her daughter Samantha, eight years old, and her son Nicholas, six years old, were at Bristol Myers Squibb childcare center from the time they were toddlers through kindergarten. Her 2-year-old son, Alex is currently enrolled at the Lawrenceville N.J. location.
“I never have to worry about the well-being of my kids when they are at the Child Development Center,” says Liu, “The teachers are amazing and take such great care of all the children.”
The support provided by Bristol Myers Squibb comes from a team of understanding managers and peers as well. Liu says that the company is incredibly accommodating whenever a child is sick.
“If I have to leave because a child is sick or because it’s back to school night, nobody bats an eye,” says Liu “If there’s a deliverable, I know that my team will have it covered, because I would do the same for them if they had to leave.”
Liu says that whenever she’s asked the age-old working mom question,
how do you do it all? ¸ she responds, “Bristol Myers Squibb makes it possible because the company recognizes the importance of a healthy work life balance and all of the people I’ve worked with strive to help each other achieve it.”
To see Bristol Myers Squibb’s write-up in Working Mother, click
here
. The complete list of Working Mother's 2018 100 Best Companies can be found
here .
related articles
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >
Building a better future: Bristol Myers Squibb 2023 ESG report >
BMS named one of America's Most JUST companies >

September 14, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company