
Responsibility
Our unwavering commitment to our patients requires that we act responsibly on all fronts. Our actions are for the benefit of the patients we serve around the world, our company, our employees, our shareholders and our communities.
About us
Responsibility
2023 ESG report
Our 2023 environmental, social, and governance (ESG) report details our ESG goals, strategies, and progress and, equally important, our approach to working with a common purpose.
View the 2023 ESG report
Explore responsibility
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation >
Corporate giving >
Transparency >
Independent medical education >
Supporting our community >
Position on key issues >
Corporate giving
Conscientious citizenship means doing everything we can to help all around the world. Our global scope of charitable activities is administered through a variety of giving programs, each with its own focus and application procedures.
View programs and apply >
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
We help all people attain their highest level of health by strengthening healthcare worker knowledge and ability, integrating medical care and community-based supportive services, and mobilizing communities in the fight against disease.
See the Foundation Programs >
Sustainability at BMS
For us, sustainability is working towards addressing unmet medical needs, increasing access to medicines and embracing our responsibility to care for our environment.
We foster sustainability on every front. >
Access to medicines
We continue the quest to increase access to medicines for those in need through research and development, our partnership with patients, advocacy groups, healthcare providers, industry, governments and NGOs, and our focus on healthcare infrastructure, product quality and safety.
See our areas of effort >
Building our communities
We help strengthen our communities by investing in programs to enhance the quality of science and technology education, addressing unmet medical needs and providing essential services.
Read about our community work >
Transparency
We are committed to conducting business with the highest integrity and will continue to increase transparency so we can share information with our patients, peers, shareholders.
Read our shared information >
Position on key issues
Our industry changes quickly. Health care policy and bioethics are always evolving and we are evolving with them. See where we stand.
View our position on key issues >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company