
Systems for managing risks
Effective risk management allows Bristol Myers Squibb to achieve our business objectives, generate value for our stakeholders and provide the highest quality biopharmaceutical products.
About us
Sustainability at Bristol Myers Squibb
Governance
Systems for managing risks
We use consistent and effective processes for risk identification, monitoring and mitigation, and incident management related to employee and environmental protection, facilities and assets, products, compliance, reputation and communications.
Product quality and safety
We are committed to providing the highest quality products and ensuring product integrity.
Read more about our commitment to product quality and safety >
Integration with existing business functions is key. Our risk management approach does not exist separately from day-to-day operations. Risk management is an integral part of business performance, in addition to key processes including:
Strategic planning
Brand planning
Performance management
Disclosure
Crisis management
Bristol Myers Squibb uses an enterprise risk management approach that addresses the full spectrum of risks:
Industry-specific
Compliance
Legal
Competitive
Environmental
Security
Privacy
Business continuity
Strategic
Financial
Reporting
Reputation
Operational
Our approach is a systematic and disciplined set of policies, processes and practices, as well as a structure that enables ongoing identification, assessment and prioritization of the major risks associated with our key business objectives.
Our approach includes developing, implementing and monitoring risk mitigation strategies in addition to reporting significant financial risks with probabilities to our management team and Board of Directors. The
Senior Management Team
receives a quarterly report on enterprise risks. Our
Audit Committee
periodically discusses with management company policies and guidelines regarding risk assessment and management, as well as major financial risk exposures and steps they have taken to monitor and control them.
Each of our facilities has a written incident management plan, which includes appropriate systems for:
Response and containment
Notification
Investigation
Documentation
Corrective action
Monitoring
Training
Recordkeeping
Self-assessments
The plan addresses major EHS incidents that involve or impact Bristol Myers Squibb employees, facilities, operations or equipment, or that involve or impact third-party contractors engaged in activities on company property or whose activities off site have the potential to adversely impact significant Bristol Myers Squibb assets or activities.
Implementing the precautionary principle
Doing business in a sustainable way is essential in developing and maintaining a competitive advantage in the marketplace, and encourages innovative approaches to government regulation. We support open markets and maintain that real economic growth is necessary for creating the capacity to meet environmental challenges. We recognize that the integrity of natural systems — our land, water, air and biodiversity - is critical to both economic and environmental vitality.
Bristol Myers Squibb takes a precautionary approach when there is potential harm to human health or the environment. For example, despite some disagreement in the scientific community at the time regarding the impact of human activities on global warming, we established a 10-year goal in 2000 to reduce our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent (normalized by sales). In 2010, we targeted additional greenhouse gas emission reductions of 15% (absolute) as part of our Sustainability 2015 Goals, relative to our 2009 performance, and we are now pursuing a further 5% reduction (absolute) versus 2015 performance in support of our
Sustainability 2020 Goals .

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company