
University of Louisville
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Our focus area
Combating cancer
University of Louisville
The University of Louisville's LEADS (Lung Education, Awareness, Detection and Survivorship) National Center for Primary Care will receive $1,595,051 over 3 years to establish the first national effort to educate providers, through intermediary organizations, on lung cancer. The goal of the Center is to institute a national education and training epicenter to improve lung cancer care across the continuum of disease, starting with improvements in screening uptake and adherence to guidelines. The Center will develop partnerships with national health systems, professional organizations, and other groups to widely disseminate best practices and implementation tools.
Need
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women, expected to account for one in four cancer deaths in 2017. Many studies have shown that lung cancer patients receive treatments at lower rates than for other cancers, regardless of stage of diagnosis. Also, despite decades of research into tobacco use treatment, many providers lack the skills and resources necessary to optimally assist patients in their quit attempts. The nation’s primary care providers (PCPs) – often called the quarterbacks of care – are uniquely positioned to effect changes that would lead to fewer lung cancer deaths. However, there is a lack of capacity for equipping providers with state-of-the-art information on tobacco use treatment, as well as on lung cancer screening, emerging treatment modalities, and survivorship support.
Project
This project seeks to build capacity for improving provider awareness, knowledge, and efficacy around managing those at risk, and diagnosed with, lung cancer. It will be the first national attempt to raise the prominence of lung cancer as a disease that can be strongly impacted on a national scale with actions taken by those providing primary care. Across the continuum of care there are actions that have been identified that PCPs can take to improve the care of those at risk for, and diagnosed with, lung cancer.
Project Leader
Connie Sorrell,
connie.sorrell@louisville.edu
See where we are helping

July 07, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company