
News & Perspectives
Boston Globe content series: Building the future of medicine in Boston's backyard
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
May 03, 2021
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Bristol Myers Squibb is expanding its physical and innovative footprint in the Boston area.
With current campuses in Kendall Square, Alewife and Devens, and new facilities under construction in Devens for cell therapy manufacturing and Cambridge Crossing for R&D, the company’s investment and commitment in and around the city is growing.
Through a content partnership with The Boston Globe, several Bristol Myers Squibb leaders and employees share their perspectives on the collaboration, cutting-edge research and state-of-the-art manufacturing happening in Massachusetts. Experts in oncology resistance, cell therapy, immunology discovery and biologics manufacturing share the company’s comprehensive approach to manufacturing and R&D – showcasing the mindset and capabilities that help Bristol Myers Squibb fulfill its vision of transforming patients’ lives through science.
Learn more about the world class science, technology and manufacturing underway at Bristol Myers Squibb across the Boston area and the passionate employees who help bring the company’s vision and culture to life.
Read more
here .
Interested in joining us at Bristol Myers Squibb in Cambridge or Devens?
Learn more
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Cancer Research ,
Careers
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
Cell therapy’s got talent – and is looking for more >
New State-of-the-Art Cell Therapy Manufacturing Facility Under Construction to Expand Bristol Myers Squibb Global Footprint >
Featured Researcher - Emma Lees  >

January 24, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company