
Harvard Law School Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation & Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Archive
Specialty Care
Harvard Law School Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation
Harvard Law School Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation
The Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation (CHLPI) will use its policy and legal research and analysis expertise to support Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation’s  Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations  and  Bridging Cancer Care
U.S. initiatives by identifying and pursuing opportunities for policy change consistent with the Foundation’s mission and goals.
Need
With diseases such as lung cancer, skin cancer, and HIV/AIDS, vulnerable populations have often been excluded from the healthcare system or faced significant barriers to accessing care. Through the Foundation’s initiatives of  Specialty Care for Vulnerable Populations  (SCVP) and  Bridging Cancer Care U.S.  (BCC), we aim to address and eliminate these disparities. Through advocacy and policy advancement work, we can amplify the impact of both our initiatives as well as the impact of projects funded by our initiatives.
Project
The Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation of Harvard Law School (CHLPI) will use its policy and legal research and analysis expertise to support the Foundation’s initiatives. CHLPI will provide one-on-one technical assistance with selected grantees to identify legislative and policy reforms and sustainable funding from government payers.
Policy goals will aim to address the disparity in care of individuals through expansion of medical coverage to underinsured, increases in telemedicine access, and increases in the roles of community health workers and patient navigation.
CHLPI will target decision-makers and host three roundtable events on key policy reforms to help disparate populations with access to care. CHLPI is focused on building and increasing self-sustaining advocacy in states through training, skill acquisition, and networking development.
Project Leader
Sarah Downer,
sdowner@law.harvard.edu
See where we are helping

September 18, 2020
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company