
Michael Little, BMS Employee
About us
/
Global Inclusion & Diversity (GI&D)
/
Global Inclusion & Diversity Report
/
Global Diversity & Inclusion Report 2020: Building a Diverse Workforce
Diversity
Cultivating a Diverse  Future Talent Pipeline
April 06, 2021
To meet the needs of our increasingly diverse patient population, we take a multiprong approach to building a workforce that can sustain us today and help us meet the needs of our patients long into the future. We create opportunities for our workforce to support students through STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math)-related activities. We partner with academic institutions to inspire and develop STEM talent with scholarships and grants, and we support the efforts of our PBRGs to develop platforms that help their members develop and advance their careers at Bristol Myers Squibb.
Creating Opportunities for Today’s STEM Leaders to Inspire the Leaders of Tomorrow
The U.S. will need 1 million more STEM professionals over the next decade than it is projected to produce at the current rate. 4
Although the number of women and underrepresented ethnic groups (UEGs) in science and engineering has grown, these groups still remain underrepresented relative to their overall presence in the workforce and population. 5  To address these growing concerns, we created our STEM Council to leverage the expertise, experience and passion of our workforce to develop future innovators and expand access to STEM education and programming, especially for UEGs.
“
The Ernest E. Just Postgraduate Fellowship Program in the Life Sciences is a partnership between Bristol Myers Squibb and UNCF to accelerate the career development of Black/African American scientists pursuing research careers in academic or biopharmaceutical industry research and development.
”
We strive to support educators and institutions by strengthening the development of STEM curricula across all stages of our future workforce’s educational journey:
Middle School
Provide awareness and familiarity with STEM at key educational crossroads.
High School
Encourage further cultivation of skills and selection of STEM college majors.
College and Post-College
Develop a pipeline of scientific talent, showcasing career trajectory.
To help close this projected STEM talent gap within the UEG populations and the industry at large, Bristol Myers Squibb has invested in signature programs to create the scientific leadership for tomorrow that reflects the changing patient demographics, particularly in the U.S.
Partnering with Historically Black Colleges and Universities to Solve STEM Disparities
Despite recent advancements, statistics show Black/African American students entering STEM careers continue to struggle to achieve professional opportunities. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) help address this disparity as evidenced by the fact that 20% of the graduates from these institutions receive a STEM-related degree. 6
Preparing Black/African American students for success in STEM requires resources and guidance they may not have exposure to before college. To help address this gap,
BOLD
(Black Organization for Leadership and Development, one of our PBRGs) not only engages middle school, high school and university students in STEM mentoring, but also has a continued sponsorship of the Executive Leadership Council (ELC) Bristol Myers Squibb Scholarship Program and the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) Postgraduate Fellowship.
BMS has awarded Executive Leadership Council scholarships to the 10 students shown above who planning to pursue a career in business or STEM at Historically Black Colleges or Universities.
Executive Leadership Council Bristol Myers Squibb Scholarship Program
As part of the company’s commitment to HBCUs, we provided scholarship awards in 2020 to 10 high-achieving Black/African American students who demonstrated academic excellence, leadership and a commitment to innovation as they pursue their degrees at HBCUs. More than simply awarding funds to deserving students, we also established a leadership committee with representation across the company, with each member serving as a one-on-one mentor to the students.
UNCF Ernest E. Just Postgraduate Fellowship Program in the Life Sciences
Created in 2017, the Ernest E. Just Postgraduate Fellowship Program in the Life Sciences is a partnership between Bristol Myers Squibb and UNCF to accelerate the career development of Black/African American scientists pursuing careers in academic or biopharmaceutical industry research and development. This three-year fellowship awards scientists with a stipend, research budget, travel award for research conferences and access to mentors and professional networks. In 2020, we announced the second cohort of the fellowship as well as an extension of the organization’s innovative partnership through 2026. Recipients Antentor Hinton Jr., Ph.D., and Cornelius Taabauzuing, Ph.D. were selected to continue conducting research on the underlying pathophysiology of Type II diabetes, and the pathogenesis of cancer and autoimmune disorders, respectively.
Stephen F. Austin State University. “EEO Ethnicity and Race Categories ” https://www.sfasu.edu/docs/human-resources/sfa-new-employee-data-definitions.pdf
Mohr, T. “Why Women Don’t Apply for Jobs Unless They’re 100% Qualified.” Harvard Business Review (2014)
Deloitte. “Big demands and high expectations. The Deloitte Millennial Survey” (January 2014)  https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Documents/About-Deloitte/gx-dttl-2014-millennial-survey-report.pdf
Feder, M. “One Decade, One Million more STEM Graduates”. (December 18, 2012)  https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2012/12/18/one-decade-one-million-more-stem-graduates
National Science Board. “The State of U.S. Science and Engineering 2020”. (2020)  https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsb20201/executive-summary
UNCF Patterson Institute special tabulations of data from the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (2018 data collection year)
Association of American Medical Colleges. “Diversity in the Physician Workforce: Facts & Figures 2014”. (2014)
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2020 employee survey
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2019 employee survey
According to Bristol Myers Squibb 2020 Global Diversity and Inclusion survey
Verified Inclusion Partner certification developed in partnership with the NeuroLeadership Institute
References [+]
References [-]
< Building a Diverse Workforce
related content
Building Business Performance and  Equity through Supplier Diversity  >

August 08, 2022
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company