
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation advances health equity for underserved populations around the world.
About us
Responsibility
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Innovating for change
At the BMS Foundation, we envision a world where everyone has access to quality healthcare, regardless of who they are or where they live. Together with our partners, we strive to bridge the divides that prevent people from achieving optimal health.
Explore The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation
Foundation focus areas >
Success stories >
Foundation team >
Resources and learnings >
Archive >
Our mission
Our mission is to advance health equity for underserved communities. For nearly a quarter of a century, we’ve ventured to help those burdened by serious diseases, from the African continent to China and across the Americas.
A legacy of impact
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation is continuing our decades long legacy of creating impact with our grantees to effect sustainable change. Together, we’re working to to achieve equitable healthcare for all.
How we partner for change
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation brings together partners from the government, nonprofit, academic and private sectors to test innovations in health equity. We support programs that demonstrate the effectiveness of health system strengthening and community engagement to ensure that all patients can obtain high-quality healthcare regardless of who they are or where they live.
We engage global experts to provide guidance and technical assistance to grantees in our therapeutic areas of focus as well as in community engagement and education, infrastructure and capacity building, healthcare provider training and much more.
Cancer
Although more people today are surviving cancer, the same is not true for everyone. We are working with grantees in areas where social stigmas, inadequate education and lack of services contribute to increased mortality rates from cancers.
Learn more >
Immunology
We seek to improve delivery and utilization of specialty care for immunological disorders to underserved and under-resourced populations in the U.S.
Learn more >
Cardiology
We support programs that provide access to cardiology specialty medical care, social support and services for underserved and under-resourced populations in the U.S. to mitigate complications from cardiovascular disease.
Learn more >
Diversity in clinical trials
We aim to increase diversity of patients enrolled in clinical trials, expand the pipeline of diverse clinical trialists and ultimately enhance the development of therapeutics for all populations.
Learn more >
Global impact
United States
Lung cancer
Atrial fibrillation
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Rheumatoid arthritis
Multiple sclerosis
Diversity in clinical trials
Brazil
Lung cancer
Melanoma
Africa
Lung cancer
Multiple myeloma
Cervical cancer
Childhood cancers and blood disorders
China
Lung cancer
Gastric cancer
Liver cancer

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company