
Our research and development locations
About us
Our company
Worldwide locations
Our research and development locations
Bristol Myers Squibb's drug discovery and development work takes place across a network of state-of the-art facilities worldwide. For information about a specific Bristol Myers Squibb facility, click the link from the list below or view the complete list of our
worldwide locations .
Bangalore, India
The Biocon Bristol Myers Squibb Research & Development Center (BBRC) is a collaboration between Bristol Myers Squibb and Syngene International, a Biocon- group company, and is based in Bangalore, India. Fully operational since 2009, the site is involved in Target Identification, Lead Discovery and Lead Optimization all the way through to early stage Pharmaceutical Development and Clinical Biomarkers R&D.
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Bristol Myers Squibb’s state-of-the-art research and development site at Cambridge Crossing encompasses over 480,000 square feet in a 43-acre life science development. Research here expands the boundaries of science, bringing together pillars of discovery, development and data across cancer, cardiovascular, immunology and neuroscience.
The passion of hundreds of scientists in Cambridge, coupled with Bristol Myers Squibb’s broad scope of research and development capabilities around the world, has contributed to one of the most promising pipelines in the industry.
Learn More >
Moreton, England
The 11.2 acre research facility is located on the Wirral Peninsula between Chester and Liverpool. Scientists here investigate new medicinal compounds and how they can be manufactured efficiently on a commercial scale.
Learn More >
New Brunswick, New Jersey
Purchased in 1905 when E.R. Squibb & Sons relocated operations from Brooklyn, New York, this campus has 40 buildings that total 1.9 million square feet on 96 acres. The site has evolved from a manufacturing site to become Bristol Myers Squibb's center for excellence for our therapeutic compounds.
Learn More >
Princeton Pike, New Jersey
The newly constructed 650,000-square foot facility opened November 2016 and houses employees from the Commercial teams, their commercialization and late-stage development partners from Research & Development and Global Manufacturing & Supply and their enabling function support teams.
Learn More >
Lawrenceville, New Jersey
The 276-acre campus serves as Bristol Myers Squibb's Research and Development headquarters. Here scientists discover and develop medicines in the areas of cancer, immunology, and cardiovascular diseases. The campus has 13 connected buildings totaling 1.5 million square feet.
Rueil-Malmaison, France
Bristol Myers Squibb's French R&D location located 45 minutes from downtown Paris. The building, opened in August 2002, was designed by internationally recognized architect Jean-Paul Viguier.
Redwood City, California
Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D campus in Redwood City, California focuses on the complexities of the tumor microenvironment. Here, teams examine various aspects of the microenvironment, collaborating closely with discovery and translational scientists across the country to research how we can harness the body’s own immune system to better target tumors.
Learn More >
San Diego, California
Bristol Myers Squibb’s San Diego R&D site, located in the heart of the local life sciences ecosystem just a few miles away from picturesque La Jolla, houses several unique and industry-leading capabilities. The site focuses on the exploration of novel biology and target concepts – such as protein degradation – and complex biologics, aiming to better understand and modulate the biological processes that lead to cancer, multiple sclerosis and other diseases with significant unmet needs.
Learn More >
Seattle, Washington
Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D site in the South Lake Union neighborhood of Seattle, Washington is at the center of the Company’s discovery, pipeline development and translational research efforts focused on cell therapy and immuno-oncology. Within this Thematic Research Center, scientists examine immune effector cell-based therapies such as CAR T cells, T-cell engagers, monoclonal antibodies and small molecules in both blood cancers and solid tumors. In addition, researchers in Seattle conduct extensive exploratory translational studies to support clinical studies and inform asset development strategies.
The BMS R&D site in Seattle is part of BMS’s larger Seattle-area presence, which also includes employees working to develop, manufacture and commercialize cell therapies at a BMS cell therapy manufacturing plant in nearby Bothell, WA.
Learn More  >
Seville, Spain
Bristol Myers Squibb's Center for Innovation and Translational Research Europe (CITRE) R&D site in Seville, Spain is a capability center that brings together teams from our global Informatics and Predictive Sciences, early clinical development and Thematic Research Center organizations to contribute to Bristol Myers Squibb research efforts worldwide.
The site houses computational, clinical and biology research teams as well as dedicated computational research infrastructure and laboratory facilities. Alongside onsite research, the center serves to expand our innovation, collaboration and talent development footprint in Europe.
Summit, New Jersey
Bristol Myers Squibb’s R&D site in Summit, New Jersey focuses on nonclinical research and development, clinical pharmacology and early development and translational medicine for immunology, cardiovascular and fibrosis and hematology. Additionally, the Early Development Program Leadership organization, based here and in Princeton, New Jersey, collaborates across the organization in leading the development and implementation of compelling asset strategies across the portfolio.
Tokyo, Japan
Since 1995, Bristol Myers Squibb has occupied 76,000 square feet of an office building in Nishi-Shinjuku, Tokyo.
Learn More >

June 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company