
Melanoma
Explore education and resources for patients suffering from melanoma and other skin conditions. Find helpful resources today.
Patients & caregivers
Melanoma
Melanoma
resources
When you click on the links below, you will leave our site and open a new tab/window. We provide these links as a convenience and Bristol Myers Squibb is not responsible for, nor endorses, any content on third-party sites.
Melanoma resources
Melanoma is the most dangerous form of skin cancer. When detected and treated early, it is often curable.
Melanoma Research Foundation
The Melanoma Research Foundation (MRF) supports medical research for finding effective treatments and eventually a cure for melanoma; educates patients, physicians and the public about the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of melanoma; and acts as an advocate for the melanoma community to raise awareness of this disease and the need for a cure.
Learn more >
AIM at Melanoma Foundation
This organization is globally engaged and locally invested in advancing the battle against melanoma through innovative research, legislative reform, education and patient and caregiver support.
Learn more >
Skin Cancer Foundation
A resource with an overview and more in-depth information for melanoma skin cancer.
Learn more >
Melanoma Research Alliance
The Melanoma Research Alliance (MRA) is dedicated to ending suffering and death due to melanoma by collaborating to accelerate powerful research, advance cures for all patients and prevent more melanomas.
Learn more >
American Cancer Society
An in-depth overview of melanoma skin cancer.
Learn more >
Cancer.net
An overview of melanoma skin cancer with links to more in-depth information.
Learn more >
General melanoma resources
CancerCare
The mission of CancerCare is to provide free professional support services for anyone affected by cancer.
Cancer Support Community
The Cancer Support Community is an international nonprofit dedicated to providing support, education, and hope to people affected by cancer and their loved ones.
Cancer Research Institute
The Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is dedicated to pursuing research in and advancing awareness of immunotherapy for cancer.
Mayo Clinic
Information on preparing for appointments with your doctor.
Skin Cancer Foundation
A list of cancer support resources and melanoma skin cancer articles.
Treatment options
American Cancer Society
A patient-focused resource for skin cancer treatment information.
Cancer.net
Provides information on different types of treatment for melanoma skin cancer.
Medscape from WebMD
Provides detailed information for treatment stages, regimens and doses.
Current research
Cancer.net
Provides information on latest therapeutic approaches.
Featured news & articles
View all >
SEPTEMBER 05, 2019 / PEOPLE
When employees are patients >
Training community members to raise awareness of melanoma >

April 05, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company