
Our stories
/
Science
Cancer Research
Uncovering the next wave of cancer treatments
October 24, 2021
By Myrtle Davis, DVM, Ph.D., ATS, Scientific Vice President, Discovery Toxicology
Taking on cancer in new ways
To uncover the next wave of treatments that will confront cancer in previously unseen ways, we must challenge ourselves to approach cancer research differently. One quote that has always resonated with me states, “I want to take the calculated risk; to dream and to build. I prefer the challenges of life to the guaranteed existence.” Our traditional ways of approaching cancer therapies need to be reviewed, examined and allowed to evolve.
Therapeutic advancements have transformed many once-fatal cancers into chronic manageable diseases. As people diagnosed with cancer are living longer, quality of life becomes even more important. At Bristol Myers Squibb, we place a strong emphasis on leveraging toxicological research to assess the potential unintended consequences of new treatments on patients. We continue to invest significant resources in our established discovery toxicology department because our data can inform and shape our research and development efforts.
Myrtle Davis, DVM, Ph.D., Scientific Vice President, Discovery Toxicology
Toxicology
is a science that seeks to understand interactions of compounds with the body that lead to adverse effects. I was drawn to toxicology because it offered me the ability to explore a science that combines my passions for math, chemistry and problem-solving. My love for solving scientific problems was confirmed while I was pursuing my Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree. I had wanted to be a veterinarian since I was a six-year-old girl, but I continued to be drawn back to the lab and the stimulation and challenge of studying tough scientific problems. A bonus was that my experience in veterinary medicine provided an essential baseline of clinical knowledge that has helped me with how I approach biomedical research.
Toxicologists consider a drug target and its relation to the disease, but the focus for us is on the target’s role in healthy cells. This helps us to understand possible side effects that may affect a patient’s quality of life. Understanding the adverse effect profile can change how researchers approach administration of therapies or decide how to modulate targets.  The data generated from early non-clinical experiments are highly informative as we look for new ways to address cancer while considering the changing paradigm in cancer survivorship.
The role of the toxicologist in advancing cancer therapies
Toxicology plays a key role in cancer research, beginning at the drug discovery phase and continuing through to critical decisions regarding clinical trial design. Early discovery toxicologists are partners in the search for that one molecule among thousands that may offer hope for patients. Later in the process, another toxicologist’s work may focus solely on evaluating a single candidate molecule with the aim of defining how the investigative drug can be administered to patients safely. Collectively, we are all working toward a goal of advancing novel therapies that improve people’s lives.
Developing innovative anti-cancer therapies requires a willingness to embrace the most modern technology to create new methodologies and protocols that can lead to breakthrough science. As toxicologists, we want to make our research better, faster and more predictive as it pertains to human safety and efficacy. This can include the ability to interrogate a therapeutic mechanism more closely, translate information more accurately from the lab to humans, or use digital technologies, like digital image analysis, to move the science of pathology forward in ways that were previously impossible with a traditional microscope.
“
Developing innovative anti-cancer therapies requires a willingness to embrace the most modern technology to create new methodologies and protocols that can lead to breakthrough science. As toxicologists, we want to make our research better, faster and more predictive as it pertains to human safety and efficacy.
”
A dedication to advancing medicine for generations to come
I’m proud to be part of a company with a track record of dedication to discovery toxicology, having established a one of the first standalone discovery toxicology departments nearly 20 years ago. We invest heavily in supporting the next generation of toxicologists and other scientists, including summer programs where students can work side by side with our toxicologists to learn more about the field and receive sponsorship to support their graduate education with the Society of Toxicology.
At Bristol Myers Squibb, we are consistently working to push toxicology further and challenge what is expected of a new cancer therapy. I’m passionate about my team bringing meaningful contributions to the table to benefit people facing the most serious diseases. Together, we will continue to transform lives and reimagine cancer research, as we empower all people with cancer to have a better future.
related articles
Bristol Myers Squibb employees from 30 nations will cycle and celebrate 11 years of C2C4C >
Revelations in oncology: Reflecting on the past and charting the future in cancer research >
Our multiple myeloma story: Collaboration drives progress >
Bringing new meaning to skin-deep: The potential benefits of treating cancers with subcutaneous immunotherapy >
Learn more about Myrtle Davis and her work at Bristol Myers Squibb. >

November 03, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company