
One young world - Bristol Myers Squibb
The world’s biggest and most impactful youth leadership Summit.
View Video Transcript
Turn Audio On
CLOSE
We are the unseen explorers.
We are going deeper than any deep sea diver. And further than any astronaut ever has because there are more cells in the human body than all the stars in our galaxy.
We are discovering the universes in our bodies. While we may never summit a peak we are climbing new heights to understand how to cure disease. Because we are the world's most uncharted territory, thousands of breaths and countless heartbeats a day.
We are as fragile as we are complex. So much threatens our ability to live long and fulfilling lives. And we are all fighting the same fights.
We are the administrators, the truck drivers, the scientists, and the managers. The dreamers, the thinkers, and the doers. Working so that all can be and live. All the places you go, we will go there with you. All the people you love, we love them, too.
We are using science to transform lives.
We are Bristol Myers Squibb.
Watch in:
Spanish
Portuguese
German
French
Italian
Japanese
Chinese
Meet our BMS OYW delegates:
Sophocles Chanos
(Greece Delegate)
"Passionate & inclusive people who advocate for their beliefs aiming to bringing a positive change in this world, where every human being is valued and respected for who they are."
Shilpa Gupta
(US Delegate)
"My driving force is enhancing human lives. Witnessing the transformational effects of even small efforts on individuals and communities is a constant reminder of the power we hold to uplift and empower one another."
Jane Agwaro
(US Delegate)
"Mentorship is a key differentiator in personal and professional development, because of that , I endeavor to share knowledge, assist, and create awareness on approaches to life, education, and career at large."
Karen Martinez
(Latin America Delegate)
"I consciously strive to overcome my own limitations and to contribute to a better world every single day. I want to create a mindful and safe culture in my work and patient care, to make tangible strides toward health equity."
Loan Vo
(Australia Delegate)
"Growth is my passion. This constant pursuit of personal and professional development motivates me to embrace challenges, learn from experiences, and continuously evolve."
María Laura Ratto
(Argentina Delegate)
"Addressing inequalities to promote egalitarian aspects in human beings. I believe in small actions that lead to a significant impact on society. Communication is essential to drive change as it connects people in a powerful way."
Mary Salib
(Canada Delegate)
"What drives me? Helping and interacting with others."
Masab Siddiqui
(US Delegate)
"I want to leave this world better off than when I was born into it! This means creating new and equal opportunities for everyone."
Norvella Dunwoody
(US Delegate)
"I am driven by the belief that everyone deserves a fair chance in life, regardless of race, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status. I want to contribute to reducing inequalities in education and the workplace."
Richa Singhal
(India Delegate)
"As a public health professional in India, I have always been driven by good health and well being measures which are easy to implement and cost effective."
Eleanor Thornton
(Ireland Delegate)
"I strive to help others and make a positive impact in the world. If we can work together, we can create lasting impact for future generations."
Kathy Monangai
(US Delegate)
"Ensuring that people have the opportunity to access quality healthcare regardless of zip code"
Amy Doyle
(BMS Scholar)
"I have a passion for empowering junior employees to be innovative, confident and feel comfortable in the workplace."
John Loveseth
Our global inclusion and diversity commitment:
We want every employee to bring their authentic selves to work and to use their diverse perspectives to contribute in a unique and meaningful way to our mission at Bristol Myers Squibb.
Learn more
Lead 2030 challenge winner:  Luke Ichor
The challenge:  How do we reduce waste and create sustainable consumption worldwide?
ESG report
Bristol Myers Squibb’s commitment to our patients, customers, employees, investors, global communities, suppliers and other stakeholders is an intrinsic part of how we deliver on our mission to provide transformative treatments for patients facing serious diseases.
View report
The kind word wall
Kind words are incredibly important for mental health as they have the power to uplift, inspire, and provide a sense of belonging. When someone is going through a difficult time, hearing kind and encouraging words can offer reassurance, comfort, and hope. Kind words can help combat feelings of loneliness or isolation, as they remind us that we are valued and cared for. They have the ability to create a positive environment that promotes self-esteem and self-worth. Ultimately, kind words have the transformative power to brighten someone's day, improve their mental well-being, and remind them of their inherent worth and significance.
Learn more on Kind Words here:
The Power of Our Words - Psychology Today >
Psychiatry.org - The Mental Health Benefits of Simple Acts of Kindness >
The Incredible Power of a Compliment - HuffPost Life >

January 07, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company