
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
BMS Foundation
Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation supports Hurricane Florence relief efforts in the Southeast U.S.
September 15, 2018
If you are a patient taking a
Bristol Myers Squibb product
or participating in a clinical trial and can’t reach your local physician, treatment center or pharmacist/dispensing pharmacy contact the Bristol Myers Squibb Customer Information Center
1-800-332-2056
The Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation is supporting emergency relief effort in the southeastern United States following Hurricane Florence, which made landfall in North Carolina on September 14.  The storm is slowly moving across the Carolinas, causing widespread flooding, destroying homes and forcing thousands of residents to flee.
The Foundation is donating $50,000 to two long-time partners in disaster relief efforts,
Americares
and the
American Red Cross .  The funds will provide desperately needed basic supplies and medical care for survivors.
“The emergency responders are doing everything possible to rescue and assist the people impacted by Hurricane Florence, but much more still needs to be done,” says John Damonti, president, Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation.  “The Foundation is working quickly to provide financial support to our partners to help get much needed supplies and medical care to the impacted communities to help alleviate the suffering.”
“
The Foundation is working quickly to provide financial support to our partners to help get much needed supplies and medical care to the impacted communities to help alleviate the suffering.
”
Even as the storm has been blamed for several deaths, the full toll of the hurricane remains unclear. Officials warned that the danger was far from over, saying that the flooding in the Carolinas is unlikely to recede quickly, potentially forcing many more people from their homes and causing billions of dollars in damages.
The Foundation and its disaster relief partners will continue to diligently monitor the situation to provide support as needed.
related content
Answering the urgent call for more hematologists in Africa >
PharmD resident takes journey of a lifetime >
Disaster relief information for patients >

November 19, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company