
News & Perspectives
Award-Winning Excellence at Premiere Energy Conferences
Teams share knowledge and exchange insights at two premiere energy conferences.
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
November 17, 2023
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Our Global Engineering and Sustainability teams help identify and pilot innovative solutions for water conservation, energy efficiency and emissions reduction. Their activities have not only been instrumental in helping BMS progress toward its environmental goals, but have also helped our industry partners and colleagues discover and learn about innovative solutions to some of the world’s most complex environmental challenges.
Recently, two of our engineers participated at the 2023 ENERGY STAR Products Partner Meeting and the Association of Energy Engineers World Energy Conference & Expo. At the event, they accepted an award on behalf of BMS for one of the Top Energy Projects by ENERGY STAR for automated fault detection and diagnostics (AFDD) in pharmaceuticals.
Dan Groza, associate director for Building Automation Systems, shared BMS’ AFDD journey, a significant initiative across eight BMS sites, and the many benefits of the platform, including reduced energy costs and GHG emissions, improved equipment reliability, and prioritized maintenance issues, which in turn, help facilities run more efficiently and effectively.
Speaking about the BMS AFDD project, Danny Macri of ENERGY STAR thanked BMS for sharing solutions to enhance operations and energy efficiency.
“Your presentation on automatic fault detection and diagnostics was very timely,” Macri said. “It provided both a primer for companies new to this topic and excellent examples and details for those that are more advanced.”
Andrew Maude, associate director, Global Energy & Sustainability, also shared his expertise, highlighting a BMS case study that investigated different solutions for thermal heat recovery systems at the Devens, MA, facility.
“Participating at conferences and not only sharing our learnings but being able to learn from others has been very beneficial in exposing us to new technology opportunities and greater optimization,” said Maude. “We look forward to continuing to collaborate and work alongside partners such as ENERGY STAR to continue to advance solutions around energy efficiency.”
Subscribe to Our stories alerts
Beyond just relevant information about Bristol Myers Squibb's therapeutic areas and innovation, Our stories offer a window into the work our employees do every day for patients.
Subscribe
Sustainability
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team
ASPIRE: Our commitment to address health inequities in low- and middle-income countries >
Our journey to reduce Scope 3 emissions >
What is BMS doing on the world stage to advance global health and access to innovation? >

December 20, 2023
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company