
Our research in hematology
With BMS delivering many firsts in hematology, we are committed to the next wave of advancements for patients through our extensive portfolio and rich hematology pipeline, spanning multiple modalities, combinations and differentiated research platforms including cell therapy and targeted protein degradation.
Researchers
Areas of focus
Our research in hematology
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Featured in hematology
Intended for healthcare professionals, scientific audiences and media.
Our committment to advancing cell therapy >
Leveraging multiple treatment modalities and advanced science, we seek to address hematologic conditions in many ways. We are harnessing key biologic processes that enable us to tap into targets previously considered undruggable and design new ways to affect pathways critical to the development and persistence of blood diseases.
Science Firsthand: The pathway to drug discovery >
Blood cancers fact sheet >
Understanding targeted protein degradation >
Explore our comprehensive approach to cancer research >
The science behind protein degradation >
Bristol Myers Squibb is committed to developing transformational therapies that will lead to long-lasting remission.
We have the most robust portfolio of treatments for patients with multiple myeloma and continue our efforts to redefine the treatment paradigm. In leukemia, lymphoma and non-malignant hematologic disease, we deploy our expertise to discover, develop and deliver a robust portfolio that continues to bring innovative treatment options to patients in need.
Explore our stories
View all >
Revelations in oncology: Reflecting on the past and charting the future in cancer research >
Our multiple myeloma story: Collaboration drives progress >
Bringing new meaning to skin-deep: The potential benefits of treating cancers with subcutaneous immunotherapy >
Our hematology focus areas​
Leukemia
Lymphoma
Multiple myeloma
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)
Myelofibrosis
Leukemia
A group of blood cancers that develop in the lymphatic system.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive blood cancer characterized by early relapses and poor survival rates. Bristol Myers Squibb has played an important role in the development therapies for critical unmet needs associated with the disease.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) >
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) >
Explore our stories
View all >
Untangling the complexity of cancer >
Putting patients first: Transforming clinical lessons into development strategies >
Exploring multiple paths to advance BCMA-targeted therapies >
Lymphoma
There are more than 70 different types of lymphoma, ranging from slow growing to highly aggressive forms. Drawing on our understanding of lymphoma biology and deep experience in hematology, our portfolio spans therapies across six indications with continuing expansion and important research focus in targeted protein degradation and cell therapy.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) >
Large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL) >
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) >
Indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (Indolent NHL) >
Explore our stories
View all >
Untangling the complexity of cancer >
Putting patients first: Transforming clinical lessons into development strategies >
Exploring multiple paths to advance BCMA-targeted therapies >
Multiple myeloma
Through our deep immunotherapy experience, we are raising standards, innovating across targets, molecular approaches and combinations to advance patient outcomes in multiple myeloma. Our diverse portfolio and pipeline encompass programs in targeted protein degradation, cell therapies, as well as other promising approaches.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Multiple myeloma >
Explore our stories
Patients have a single goal: The best care possible. But too often African American patients with multiple myeloma aren't getting it >
Our multiple myeloma story: Collaboration drives progress >
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)
Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) are diseases that can be characterized by chronic anemia and transfusion dependency. Bristol Myers Squibb has built on its longstanding experience in this area of disease by introducing unique approaches to these clinical challenges and continuing to develop these important options.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) >
Myelofibrosis
A serious myeloproliferative neoplasm, myelofibrosis disrupts the body’s production of red blood cells. Our portfolio and development pipeline include therapies that address major complications associated with the disease like enlarged spleens and moderate-to-severe anemia.
Scientific and disease-state resources
Myelofibrosis >
Explore our scientific resources
Learn more on our pipeline >
Request an independent research grant >
Search our scientific media resources >
Navigate to BMS Clinical Trials >
Meet our researchers
Learn more about the backgrounds, scientific pursuits and personal interests of members of our R&D team. These individuals are committed to pursuing Bristol Myers Squibb’s goal of discovering, developing and delivering transformational medicines to patients.
About Bristol Myers Squibb
Bristol Myers Squibb is a global biopharmaceutical company whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. As global citizens, we work sustainably and responsibly to create a positive impact in the communities where we live and work.
Join our team

May 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company