
Areas of focus
Bristol Myers Squibb is delivering breakthrough science across therapeutic areas, with a vision to transform lives through science.
Researchers
Areas of focus
Share Icon
Follow us on LinkedIn
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on Facebook
Therapeutic areas
Oncology
Taking inspiration from our heritage of redefining standards of care in the treatment of solid tumors, our researchers continue to solve complex scientific problems on behalf of patients everywhere.
Hematology
With the delivery of many transformational firsts in hematology, we remain committed to breaking ground across a spectrum of diseases with high unmet need.
Immunology
We are working to deliver meaningful solutions that address unmet needs in dermatology, gastroenterology, pulmonology and rheumatology.
Cardiovascular
We are building on our 70-year legacy of discovering and delivering paradigm-changing medicines, leveraging our experience and expertise formed over the past several decades to take cardiovascular research to the next level.
Neuroscience
We are dedicated to championing the needs and experiences of people living with neurological and psychiatric diseases through developing disease-modifying, as well as symptomatic therapies.
Drug platforms
Cell therapy
Cell therapy is a modality that leverages the natural power of cells, enhanced through genetic engineering, to selectively destroy or replace disease-causing cells.  Cell therapies can be derived from primary human cells or from pluripotent stem cells.
Targeted protein degradation
With targeted protein degradation, researchers are harnessing the cell’s own machinery to degrade disease-causing proteins that were previously considered “undruggable” and promote homeostasis.
Antibody-drug conjugates
Antibody-drug conjugates are engineered to deliver therapeutics to targeted locations. They do so by tethering therapeutic payloads (which can include protein degraders, immune stimulators, cytotoxic drugs, and oligonucleotides) via a linker to monoclonal antibodies, which act as honing mechanisms.
Biologics
Biologics are large molecules produced from living organisms that may consist of a variety of organic compounds. Examples include antibody-based medicines, traditionally referred to as monoclonal antibodies. Now researchers are also creating bi-and tri-specific monoclonal antibodies that have two or three distinct binding domains, allowing them to bind to multiple antigens simultaneously. Fusion proteins are also biologics and combine the attributes of two or more proteins into a single molecule.
Drug delivery technology
Novel technologies that will safely and effectively deliver medicines to patients via new and potentially more desirable or convenient routes of administration.
Millamolecules
Millamolecules are mid-range compounds that fall in size between small molecules and biologics. Size is not the only consideration for this class, as millamolecules should also be orally available and able to interrupt protein-protein interactions.

May 13, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company