
Our stories
/
News & Perspectives
Atrial Fibrillation (AFib)
Take a moment to learn about AFib and stroke risk
September 25, 2019
The BMS-Pfizer Alliance is recognizing September, or AFib Awareness Month, to raise awareness around atrial fibrillation (AFib), a common type of irregular heartbeat, and its connection to stroke. It is projected that approximately eight million people in the U.S. will be affected by AFib in 2019.
AFib puts people at a four-to-five times higher risk for stroke compared to those with regular heartbeats. Common AFib symptoms can include irregular heartbeats, heart palpitations, lightheadedness, fatigue, shortness of breath and/or chest pain. However, it is possible to have AFib and not experience any symptoms.
Age is a major risk factor for developing AFib – especially if you’re over 65. Despite the risk, according to a recent survey of 1,010 Americans aged 40 and older, 58% did not know their age can potentially put them at an increased risk for AFib. The survey was conducted by The Harris Poll on behalf of the Bristol Myers Squibb-Pfizer Alliance.
According to the same survey, 61% of adults were unfamiliar with AFib and 43% didn’t realize that you can have AFib without any noticeable symptoms.
Click here or on image
for the full infographic and references.
Learn more about AFib and how it increases stroke risk at
AMatterofMoments.com .
This survey was conducted online by The Harris Poll on behalf of the Bristol Myers Squibb-Pfizer Alliance among 1,010 US adults 40+ between May 9 and May 28, 2019. Figures for age by gender, education, income, race/ethnicity, region, size of household, marital status, and employment status were weighted where necessary to bring them into line with their actual proportions in their respective population.
related articles
Meet Tabitha >
Consumer wearable technology advancements may support AFib detection >
Are you familiar with AFib symptoms and the increased risk of stroke associated with the condition? >
No Time to Wait educates about potentially serious conditions >
Matter of Moments: Elevating awareness of AFib and its connection to stroke together with Yahoo! Lifestyle >

March 30, 2021
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company