
SEC filings
View SEC filings (including Annual 10-K, Quarterly, Current report 8-k, Proxy, Section 16 and Registration Statements and other filings) from 1994 to present.
Investors
Financial reporting
SEC filings
This site is governed solely by applicable U.S. laws and governmental regulations. Use of this site constitutes your consent to application of such laws and regulations and to our
Privacy Policy . The information on this site is subject to the terms of our
Legal Notice . Our most current information and SEC filings are available in the
News
section and
Investor
section, respectively.
Materials on this website may contain information about the Company’s future plans and prospects that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the safe harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Forward-looking statements contained on this website should be evaluated together with the many uncertainties that affect Bristol Myers Squibb's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in the company’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Bristol Myers Squibb website or from Bristol Myers Squibb Investor Relations.
In addition, any information contained on this website was current as of the date presented and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates change, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Consequently, the company will not update the information contained on the website and investors should not rely upon the information as current or accurate after the presentation date. The website may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for a particular quarterly period are available on the company’s website at
www.bms.com .​​​

April 17, 2024
© 2024
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company